Nestled between two coal-fired power plants, Manchester is a mass of closed storefronts, a smattering of broken windows and a couple of restaurants and one bar along the Ohio River.

Residents in the southern Ohio town of 2,000 rely heavily on the plants -- directly and indirectly -- to provide jobs and keep the local economy afloat.

Now, like a number of other coal-fired power plants across the country, both could close sometime in 2018. In email to CNN, Dayton Power & Light Co., co-owner of the Stuart and Killen plants, says it's responding to "market-driven financial challenges."The coal industry is facing an uncertain future, with the threat of cheaper natural gas , stricter carbon restrictions and new environmental regulations.

The Stuart station, far right, is one of two coal-fired power plants near Manchester, Ohio, facing possible closure next year.

Manchester is in Adams County, which went for Donald Trump decisively in November. Supporters here remain hopeful that the new President can play a role in keeping their paychecks steady and their families secure.

Manchester Mayor Robert Hilderbrand says his father helped build one of the plants. "Have you ever in your life seen two power plants like this with a town in between?" he asks. The impact of not one but two closing would be tremendous, he says.

Working at one of the plants is the best job in the county, says Chuck Shelton, a longtime employee at the Killen power plant.

"You get to go outdoors, work by the river," he says. "What else could you want?"

Chuck Shelton, a longtime employee at the Killen plant, has five kids and worries about his family's future.

He was surprised to hear about the expected closing of both plants next year. "I didn't think it would happen in our lifetime, and now people at my plant will be out of a job," he laments.

What's worse, Shelton adds, the next closest town with available work is an hour away.

However, Will Richards, an employee at the Stuart power plant, says he remains hopeful despite hundreds of jobs being at risk. "President Trump has a very positive attitude toward coal, and it felt a bit safer voting for him. It felt more secure for my future."

In the town's only bar, Bottoms Up, retired and out-of-work plant workers crowd the counters on an early midweek afternoon.

Between sipping $1 Miller Lights and playing pool, a conversation about the potential closing of the plants collides into one about the election.

Retired workers from the nearby power plants shoot pool in Manchester's one bar, Bottoms Up.

Some said they voted for Trump, while others went for Hillary Clinton. Still, some didn't even bother to vote at all.

A retired veteran who later became a construction worker at one of the plants doesn't have many nice things to say about Trump.

"Don't talk to me about that man!" Marvin Floyd huffs, rolling his eyes and setting up a shot at the pool table. "He is going to be no good for this town, and none of these people get it."

Bar manager Deanna Dryden adds she didn't vote in the election because it was "like choosing between two evils so my vote wasn't worth it."

DP&L told CNN in a written statement the closures are proposals and not certain at this point.

one EPA fact sheet says. Many coal-fired plants are expected to close in the coming years, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. "Coal plant communities are faced with potentially long-term job and tax revenue loss, legacy environmental contamination and the need for new economic opportunities,"one EPA fact sheet says.

But much more is at stake than just work for those whose livelihoods and histories are ingrained in this tiny town.

"You have to live here to understand. You drink the water and it gets in your blood. I could live anywhere in the world, but my heart is here," says Jane Wilson, a local business owner and fifth generation Manchester native.

Both Richards and Shelton point to Trump's deal with Carrier to keep jobs at a plant in Indiana just after the election.

"If he could get someone to buy the plants, it would mean I get to keep my family farm," Richards says.

If he had 15 minutes of the President's time, Shelton says he would make a plea for the town. "I'd like to see Trump get with our governor, get with the EPA, get with the owners of the plant and see if it can be put up for sale and give the option to people to buy them," he says.

Closure of the plants, the mayor says, will affect his small town hard because it not only relies heavily on them for jobs but also for tax dollars. A large portion of the taxes the plants generate go toward schools in Manchester. Without the revenue and tax dollars, the school district will lose nearly two-thirds of its budget, the mayor estimates.

The possible closure weighs heavily on Shelton, who has five children to care for. "Education is the future," he says. "Without the schools, what can I give my kids?"

Manchester might as well shut down as well if the plants close, everyone who spoke with CNN agrees. Richards says the town would face a downward trajectory without action.

"If (Trump) can't deliver and we close, my life is going to dramatically change," he says. "You're going to see a lot of people it's going to be hard on. You'll see people stop making their car payments, their house payments, go broke, doing drugs; it's going to be a domino effect. It's sad."

Mayor Robert Hilderbrand says roots run deep in Manchester. No one wants to leave, he says.

Hilderbrand, the mayor, says he remains hopeful the town will make a comeback. "It could be something one day," he says. "It's the men in overalls who built this country, but men in suits destroyed the country."

He counts Trump as one of those men in overalls.

Shelton doesn't want to put too much pressure on the new President but give him some time.

"I don't think it's 100% up to Trump. He has to report to other people. It's poor business decisions," " he says, although whose he can't say.

Richards has one thing he'd like to say to the man he voted for: "Help. We need your help."(CNN) Congressional Republicans struggling over how to repeal Obamacare are stuck on a key problem: what to do with the millions of people in 31 states covered under the dramatic expansion of Medicaid the law enabled.

So they have privately turned to a handful of governors to help resolve the issue -- including Wisconsin's Scott Walker and Ohio's John Kasich, according to several sources involved in the talks. The hope, according to congressional sources, is to let the governors cut a deal on an issue that directly impacts their states and let the White House and Republican leaders endorse the plan that eventually emerges.

The discussions underscore another key point: While President Donald Trump promises to soon unveil his own health care plan, lawmakers on Capitol Hill are drafting the bill -- while the Republican governors are likely to be the driving force behind the major entitlement reform over Medicaid coverage.

The stakes for Republicans are already high. At town halls this week, GOP lawmakers are getting earfuls from voters unhappy with possible rollbacks to Obamacare, and at times struggling to defend a replacement bill that doesn't yet exist.

At the center of the talks are four governors who have taken different approaches to Medicaid: Walker and Gov. Bill Haslam of Tennessee, whose states did not expand Medicaid under the law; and two governors from states that did: Kasich and Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval. The discussions are likely to continue at the National Governors Association meeting in Washington this week, and as Kasich privately meets later this week with Trump at the White House.

"There are 700,000 Ohioans who now get care who didn't have it before," Kasich told CNN's Jim Sciutto on Sunday's "State of the Union," defending his state's Medicaid expansion. "And to turn our back on them makes no sense."

The thinking is that if these four can cut a deal, it will help resolve an issue that GOP leaders say is currently the biggest hurdle in putting together a plan to repeal President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act. But they have a monumental task: resolving concerns from conservatives who want to turn Medicaid into a block grant program and alleviate fears from politicians who hail from states that accepted federal dollars to expand coverage for low-income adults under Obamacare.

"We're going to have to find a solution that accommodates those concerns," House Speaker Paul Ryan said last week.

Republicans are hoping to unveil a plan in March that could be voted on within the next several weeks. They are under a time constraint because they are using fast-track budget rules that will allow them to avoid a filibuster in the Senate and pass a repeal bill on a party-line vote.

The party is still divided over key issues -- including how far to take the repeal bill. Conservatives in the House Freedom Caucus want to pass a full-blown repeal bill that mirrors a plan that Congress approved in 2015 -- and Obama vetoed -- which would also repeal the Medicaid expansion.

Yet top Senate Republicans privately say that such an approach would not pass their chamber.

Tax credits and health savings accounts

Moreover, a number of Republicans are demanding that the repeal bill also include some new provisions to help replace the law. As part of that approach, Republicans want to include in the repeal bill tax credits to help people purchase health insurance and reforms to Health Savings Accounts that would allow families to put more money into the accounts.

Yet, Senate budget rules limit how much of the health care law can be replaced through the process known as "reconciliation," meaning that the GOP will have to rely on skeptical Democrats to pass other health care bills and on Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price to take executive action on other fronts.

But several people involved in the discussions say the biggest challenge right now is how to resolve the Medicaid dilemma. The fear among many Republicans is that gutting the program could leave many low-income individuals in their states without health care coverage if there's no viable alternative to replace it. Republicans are considering a plan -- advocated by Ryan -- where states would receive federal funding based on a formula created by a state's per capita Medicaid population.

While it's uncertain where they'll come down, Walker's support is seen as critical since he could presumably help sell the deal to conservatives who want to gut the entitlement program altogether.

"Gov. Walker and other governors around the country are on the front lines of this effort," said Tom Evenson, a Walker spokesman. "And they want to partner with the federal government to provide affordable and accessible health care."

The talks on the Hill over health care are being driven by five key Republicans: Ryan, Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch, Senate Health Chairman Lamar Alexander, House Energy and Commerce Chairman Greg Walden and Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady.

And the Energy and Commerce Committee met in January with more than a dozen GOP governors from states that expanded Medicaid and those that did not, and discussions are continuing between the governors and the lawmakers, a committee aide said.

How the four GOP governors go along with the plan also could influence key senators from those states -- including Nevada Sen. Dean Heller, who is up for re-election in 2018 and whose governor is involved in the talks. And if Kasich cuts a deal, it could influence key Ohio Republicans in both chambers.(CNN) President Donald Trump described an administration operating at full throttle during a valedictory address Thursday, vowing to uphold his campaign promises to a right-wing crowd of activists that once viewed him skeptically.

He also escalated his attacks on the press, pitting the news media against conservative values and suggesting he was going to take action soon to end what he described as a scourge of "fake news."

Speaking at the Conservative Political Action Conference, Trump vowed an economic revival spurred by new jobs and scaled back regulation. He insisted that his most prominent agenda items would be realized in short order. And he characterized in nationalist terms the "America first" theme of his presidency.

"Global cooperation, dealing with other countries, getting along with other countries is good, it's very important. But there is no such thing as a global anthem, a global currency or a global flag. This is the United States of America that I'm representing," Trump said to raucous applause at the conference, held at a hotel and convention center outside Washington.

"I'm not representing the globe," he said. "I'm representing your country."

Trump also said he is putting together a "massive budget request" to upgrade "all of the military."

"We will be substantially upgrading all of our military, all of our military. Offensive, defensive. Everything. Bigger and better and stronger than ever before. And hopefully we'll never have to use it. But nobody's going to mess with us, folks. Nobody," he said.

It was a return for Trump to the campaign speeches that propelled him into the White House, including chants of "lock her up" from the crowd, a reference to his former rival Hillary Clinton.

Going to CPAC! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

In his speech, Trump committed to aggressive action on creating jobs and heightening security, despite what he said were forces working to stymie his plans. He vowed new action to prevent terrorists from entering the US in a matter of days.

"Let me state this as clearly as I can: we are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country," Trump said at CPAC. "We will not be deterred from this cause. And in a matter of days we will be taking brand new action to protect our people and keep America safe. You will see the action."

The White House is expected to unveil next week a revised order barring travel from certain Muslim-majority nations after an initial executive action was stalled in courts.

The President said that new jobs were starting to "pour back" into the country after declines in manufacturing, and suggested he was planning new efforts to remove Americans from welfare rolls and back into paying jobs.

"It's time for all Americans to get off of welfare and get back to work. You're going to love it!" Trump said.

It was a return for Trump to the same venue which sparked his political aspirations six years ago. Trump said on Friday that he arrived at his first CPAC address in 2011 with "very little notes and even less preparation."

Metal "Make America Great Again" Christmas ornaments are available for sale at CPAC 2017.

"I loved the people, I love the commotion," Trump said of his first appearance. "When you have practically no notes and no preparation and everyone was thrilled, I said I like this business."

Back then, Trump was a brash billionaire with a popular reality television series. He appeared at the conference regularly in the ensuing years, though he was conspicuously absent last year, in the height of the Republican primary contests. Organizers said he wanted only to deliver a speech when they requested he participate in a question-and-answer session, but Trump said Friday that his positions during the campaign were "too controversial" for the conservative gathering.

His then-GOP rivals did attend, and mocked Trump for his absence. The episode illustrated some conservatives' deep apprehension about Trump, who had never previously held political office.

Trump sought to underscore his conservative credentials Friday, declaring work on his proposed border wall ahead of schedule and vowing to repeal the Affordable Care Act soon.

"As we speak today, immigration officials are finding the gang members, the drug dealers and the criminal aliens and throwing them the hell out of our country. And we will not let them back in," Trump said. "They're not coming back in folks."

And he delivered another screed against what he called "fake news," arguing the media was intrinsically at odds with conservative values.

"I called the fake news the enemy of the people and they are," Trump said, insisting that while he wasn't opposed to the media as a whole he would continue to chastise news agencies for stories he claims are false.

"They're very smart, they're very cunning," Trump said, to cheers. "There are some terrible dishonest people and they do a tremendous disservice to our country."

"It doesn't represent the people, it never will represent the people, and we're going to do something about it," Trump said of the media, without specifying what steps he might take to rectify the situation.Story highlights Boehner's former colleagues face an uncertain path forward on repealing Obamacare

The former speaker noted the difficulty Republicans would confront in getting everyone on board

Washington (CNN) Former House Speaker John Boehner threw cold water Thursday on the prospect of congressional Republicans following through on their pledge to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.

"They'll fix Obamacare," the former Ohio congressman predicted at a conference hosted by the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society in Orlando, Florida. "I shouldn't have called it repeal and replace because that's not what's going to happen. They're basically going to fix the flaws and put a more conservative box around it."

Boehner's comments come as his former colleagues face an uncertain path forward on dismantling then-President Barack Obama's signature achievement. The party has yet to settle on a replacement plan, and many members are facing criticism at town hall meetings this week from constituents who are upset about the potential ramifications of Republicans following through on the campaign pledge.

The former speaker noted the difficulty Republicans would confront in getting everyone on board.

"This is not all that hard to figure out, except this: In the 25 years that I served in the United States Congress, Republicans never, ever one time agreed on what a healthcare proposal should look like. Not once," Boehner said.

Read MoreStory highlights Singleton says he doesn't regret writing the op-ed criticizing Trump

He was disappointed by firing, but wants to "help the administration move forward"

(CNN) A Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who was fired for an 2016 op-ed he wrote that criticized then-candidate for president Donald Trump says he has no regrets and does not take his dismissal personally.

In Republican consultant Shermichael Singleton's op-ed for The Hill , he criticized Trump's rhetoric about African-Americans during the campaign.

"Donald Trump portrays our inner cities is as if they are the ailments of American society and should be exterminated and swiftly removed," Singleton wrote in the op-ed. "He never mentions the many hardworking, good and honest people who are simply trying the best they can to achieve their share of the American dream."

After the election, the 26-year-old worked with Ben Carson during his confirmation process to become HUD secretary. Singleton then joined the department as a senior adviser.

"I was disappointed," Singleton told CNN's Don Lemon on "CNN Tonight." "I said, OK, look, you can either be upset about this and do nothing or be a grown-up and say it's OK. You're American, there are still things you can do to continue to help the administration move forward."

Read MorePace, Florida (CNN) Rep. Matt Gaetz surprised a roomful of angry protesters Thursday night when he called for President Donald Trump to release his tax returns.

But the Florida Republican stopped short of saying Congress should subpoena those returns.

Gaetz, a first-term congressman from the Sunshine State's panhandle, has stood by Trump, campaigning with him over the past weekend and closing his raucous one-hour town hall at the Oops Bowling Alley here Thursday night by saying he wanted to "make America great again."

But he surprised the audience when he said, "Absolutely, Donald Trump should release his tax returns."

Donna Waters, a 56-year-old lawyer from Pensacola, became emotional Thursday night as she pressed Gaetz for an answer.

"I'm the descendant of an immigrant, he came to America in 1607 to a town called Jamestown, and my family's been here ever since," Waters said, noting that her family members have fought in every major US war, including both sides of the Civil War.

"Whenever there's a threat to this country, my family has stepped forward," Waters said, tearing up. "There are allegations that a hostile foreign country is committing acts of undeclared war by infiltrating the highest levels of our government."

Waters continued: "You are on the Judiciary Committee. You have said they are going to investigate the Russian allegations. Yes or no, Yes or no -- let me ask my question -- will you call for the release of President Trump's income tax returns?"

As Gaetz took back the microphone, the crowd immediately began screaming, "Yes or no! Yes or no!"

Then Gaetz said, "If you hear me out, you'll like my answer," and called for Trump's returns. The line garnered some rare applause from the crowd that was otherwise mostly livid over Gaetz's push to abolish the Environmental Protection Agency and a string of other issues.

During his presidential campaign, Trump became the first major-party nominee since 1972 not to release his tax returns -- citing ongoing IRS audits and saying he would do so once those audits were completed.

But last month, top Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said the President will not release his returns. Conway later sought to clarify her remarks, asserting there had been no change in position from the campaign and that Trump's business advisers had urged him not to release the documents.

Throughout Gaetz's hour-long town hall here just outside of Pensacola, protesters booed, chanted, yelled over him and jeered Gaetz. At one point, a questioner asked Gaetz if he would vote to impeach Trump, to which the crowd began chanting, "Impeach Trump! Impeach Trump!"

"I do not agree with President Trump on every issue, I do not agree with any human being on Planet Earth on every issue, but I support President Trump and I'm going to back him up," Gaetz said.

Gaetz often spoke directly with the protesters. Outside a meeting with constituents at the Santa Rosa County Building, Sarah Coutu, a mother of eight from Milton and member of Florida Panhandle Progressives, confronted him on his EPA bill.

As he attempted to talk through his call to abolish the EPA, protesters screamed, "Your last term!" over him and he walked into the building.

But Gaetz also tightly controlled access to his earlier events, holding an earlier meeting with constituents in a back room of a restaurant that had limited access.

During a stop at Grover T's BBQ in Milton, Florida, Gaetz was ushered past more than 100 protesters by a group of sheriff's deputies and members of Bikers for Trump, who said they were providing security.Story highlights Trump has used a series of executive orders to chip away at the barriers to deportations

Trump is not using the military to deport undocumented immigrants

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump, meeting with business leaders at the White House on Thursday, described his administration's moves to deport undocumented immigrants as a "military operation," a label that runs counter to what his administration has previously said.

Trump has used a series of executive orders to chip away at the barriers to deportations and hire new law enforcement officials to spearhead the effort, using the Department of Homeland Security to live up to the President's tough talk on undocumented immigration during the 2016 campaign.

"We're getting really bad dudes out of this country, and at a rate that nobody's ever seen before," Trump said Thursday. "And they're the bad ones. And it's a military operation."

He added: "You see what's happening at the border. All of a sudden for the first time, we're getting gang members out. We're getting drug lords out."

A White House spokesperson said Trump did not misspeak by calling deportations a 'military operation,' but clarified the President meant "military" as an "adjective."

Read MoreKellyanne Conway, a White House counselor to President Trump, is interviewed in Washington on Thursday, February 9. In a Fox News interview, Conway urged viewers to "go buy Ivanka's stuff" after Nordstrom and other stores said recently that they were changing their relationship with Ivanka Trump's clothing line because of poor sales. The comments could run afoul of a federal law that bars public employees from making an "endorsement of any product, service or enterprise, or for the private gain of friends, relatives, or persons with whom the employee is affiliated in a nongovernmental capacity." A senior administration official told CNN that Conway apologized to the President.Story highlights "We're taking the view that the Israelis have just as much right, if not a much greater right, to Judea and Samaria as the Palestinians," Friedman said.

"That, I think, is frankly a unique position of Donald Trump, and one which we're very proud of," he added.

(CNN) Donald Trump's nominee to be ambassador to Israel, David Friedman, said in a radio interview right before the election that he believed Israelis had just as much a right, if not a greater right, as the Palestinians to control the West Bank.

Israeli occupation of the West Bank has long been viewed by the international community as an obstacle to a two-state peace agreement with Palestine. Friedman's comments reflect his hardline views on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, many of which depart from longtime US policy on the issue.

Friedman made the comments to internet radio show "Your Voice Radio" in November while discussing changes made to the 2016 Republican Party platform. Friedman refers to the West Bank as Judea and Samaria, its biblical name.

"The platform rejects the notion that Israel is an occupier with regard to Judea and Samaria," Friedman said. "No other president or presidential candidate has ever said that, and that's important because when the Israelis and the Palestinians sit down, if they ever do, if they're able to find common ground, it has to be on the basis that both sides have competing rights to this land and that somehow those rights are going to be compromised in a way that respects the mutual claims to sovereignty. What the Obama administration, and frankly the Bush administration as well, have said in the past is that this land is held by Israel against international law."

Friedman said his view was the Israelis had as much a right to West Bank as the Palestinians and said past presidents were wrong to take the position that Israel was occupying the land.

Read More(CNN) Gavin Grimm, a 17-year-old transgender student from Virginia, is set to take his case to the nation's highest court.

Speaking Friday with CNN's Alisyn Camerota on "New Day," Grimm said he was frustrated but not daunted by the Trump administration's decision to rescind an Obama-era directive allowing transgender students at public schools to use bathrooms and facilities corresponding with their gender identity.

"It was very frustrating," said Grimm. "I don't think any one was necessarily surprised ... It emboldened us to really ramp our efforts in what we are doing and keep fighting as hard as we always have been."

At issue is whether Grimm can use the bathroom that corresponds to his gender identity, rather than the gender on his birth certificate. He is barred from using the boys' bathroom at his Virginia high school

Last April, a federal appeals court ruled in favor of Grimm, who fought a school board policy that denied him access to the boys' bathroom but allowed him the use of recently constructed single-stall unisex restrooms.

Read MoreThe Florida Republican, like other lawmakers around the country, is holding events in his district Thursday and is worried about protesters.

The thought has crossed Gaetz's mind that protests could completely disrupt him from being able to speak at all at his town hall. So he's created what his staffers call the "non-verbal town hall," reminiscent of a scene from the movie "Love Actually."

Gaetz has printed out part of a speech that gets some of his message across onto giant boards that he will hold up if he is unable to get a word in.

Candace Preston, a staffer for Rep. Gaetz, holds up signs that are his backup plan if protestors disrupt his Thursday night town hall - his speech printed entirely on posters.

The signs thank the crowd for allowing him to serve. Some of them preemptively call out "professional liberal protestors" for trying to disrupt him from talking to voters. The signs are heavy and take two trips out to be loaded in a car to accompany him Thursday.

Gaetz has a 12-hour blitz of meetings with constituents through part of his district in northwest Florida. Tuesday and Wednesday, his staffers were planning their events, as the calls kept coming in.

"The phones are ringing off the hook because they sent a campaign to call and harass us today," Gaetz's chief of staff, Amanda Cogan, told CNN.

It's one of several campaigns to protest the freshman congressman. Some dissenters call the office upset about a bill Gaetz introduced in early February that aims to kill the Environmental Protection Agency by 2018 (he thinks the money and responsibility should go to the states), or his unwavering support of President Donald Trump and his plans to do things like repeal and replace Obamacare.

Gaetz pronounces his name like it sounds from the phrase "open the flood gates" -- and that is exactly what he plans to do Thursday. The congressman from Florida's panhandle has been planning this day since December, soon after he was elected and sworn in. He is 34, single, and the son of former Florida state Senate President Don Gaetz. He has seen his Republican colleagues met with protests and boos at their town halls in the days leading up to his.

"I think part of the job in public service is not just living in your own echo chamber where you talk to your own supporters about their views," Gaetz told CNN. "But where you give people the opportunity, who disagree with you, to step forward, yell at ya, wag their finger in your face, and the job of the public servant is to take it. And that's exactly what we're going to do."

Staffers prepare ahead of Rep. Gaetz's 12 hour public appearance blitz.

While Gaetz knows about multiple plans to protest at several of his nine events, he's not letting them stop him from holding public meetings and a town hall in Santa Rosa county, part of his district of about 750,000 people.

'I won't melt'

Gaetz met with his mostly female staff in a temporary office in Pensacola two days before what he calls "Open Gaetz Day."

Huddled around a conference table, the team poured over every detail of the day that starts at 7 a.m. and has no scheduled end time for his 7 p.m. town hall. There will be raffle tickets to randomly draw the names of the people who will get to ask questions, to show that there is no favoritism. There is a discussion of whether or not people who show they live in the district should get priority entry. They talk about whether the radio station he'll be doing a live interview has the capability to take live caller questions.

Rep. Gaetz meets with staffers ahead of his town hall and public appearances.

One thing Gaetz is concerned about: signs. At one event, there is no stage and possibly big crowds.

"What I'm worried about is - since this is all one level - if people come there and hold up their 'Matt Gaetz is awesome/Matt Gaetz is a jerk' signs, the people behind them won't be able to see or know what's going on," Gaetz said.

"We have a 'No signs' sign," replied district aide Laura Rakas.

Gaetz is satisfied with this and moves on to share notes that he has typed up on his cell phone. He leans back in his chair and looks at his staffers.

"There will be circumstances where someone will, like, you know, throw a bottle of water on me. Or someone might grab me or someone pushed me the other day. Don't worry about that," Gaetz said. "If people throw water on me like they've been saying on social media they're going to do, I won't melt. I'm not the wicked witch. It'll be fine."

The only way the day can possibly go bad, Gaetz believes, is if someone loses his or her cool.

Gaetz also says that an empty stomach can be a recipe for dissent.

Of the midday event, at a local barbeque restaurant, district aide Laure Rakas asked him, "Do you want them to go ahead and start making their plates and start sitting down to begin eating?"

"Yes. Never hold people back from the food," Gaetz said. "Crowds are always more docile when they're fed."Washington (CNN) Two senior administration officials on Friday vehemently argued that White House officials acted appropriately in asking the FBI to publicly knock down media reports about communications between President Donald Trump's associates and Russians known to US intelligence.

The White House was reacting to CNN's exclusive reporting that White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus asked the FBI to say the reports were wrong after Deputy Director Andrew McCabe told Priebus the coverage was inaccurate. The White House Friday said both McCabe and FBI Director James Comey in a separate conversation rejected that request, multiple US officials briefed on the matter told CNN.

The senior administration officials who gathered reporters Friday morning to defend the White House request to the FBI confirmed that Priebus spoke with both McCabe and Comey about the reports of contacts between Trump campaign advisers and Russians known to US intelligence. But the officials said Priebus didn't initiate the conversation with McCabe that sparked the request to knock down the story. Rather, the officials said McCabe "asked for five minutes alone" and called the reports "BS."

The senior administration officials said Priebus expressed his concern to McCabe that Priebus was "getting crushed" on the story and asked him, "What am I supposed to do?" McCabe then called Priebus to say the FBI could not comment on the reports.

The officials said that Comey later called Priebus to echo McCabe's message, that he believed the story to be inaccurate, but that the FBI could not "get into the position of making statements on every story."

Read MoreWashington (CNN) President Donald Trump has assigned the Department of Homeland Security, working with the Justice Department, to help build the legal case for its temporary travel ban on individuals from seven countries, a senior White House official tells CNN.

Other Trump administration sources tell CNN that this is an assignment that has caused concern among some administration intelligence officials, who see the White House charge as the politicization of intelligence -- the notion of a conclusion in search of evidence to support it after being blocked by the courts. Still others in the intelligence community disagree with the conclusion and are finding their work disparaged by their own department.

"DHS and DOJ are working on an intelligence report that will demonstrate that the security threat for these seven countries is substantial and that these seven countries have all been exporters of terrorism into the United States," the senior White House official told CNN. "The situation has gotten more dangerous in recent years, and more broadly, the refugee program has been a major incubator for terrorism."

The report was requested in light of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals' conclusion that the Trump administration "has pointed to no evidence that any alien from any of the countries named in the order has perpetrated a terrorist attack in the United States." The seven counties are Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.

The senior White House official said the desire to bolster the legal and public case that these seven countries pose a threat is a work in progress and as of now, it's not clear if DHS and DOJ will offer separate reports or a joint report.

One of the ways the White House hopes to make its case is by using a more expansive definition of terrorist activity than has been used by other government agencies in the past. The senior White House official said he expects the report about the threat from individuals the seven countries to include not just those terrorist attacks that have been carried out causing loss of innocent American life, but also those that have resulted in injuries, as well as investigations into and convictions for the crimes of a host of terrorism-related actions, including attempting to join or provide support for a terrorist organization.

The White House did not offer an on-the-record comment for this story despite numerous requests.

Dissension and concern

The White House expectation of what the report will show has some intelligence officials within the administration taking issue with this intelligence review, sources told CNN.

First, some intelligence officials disagree with the conclusion that immigration from these countries should be temporarily banned in the name of making the US safer. CNN has learned that the Department of Homeland Security's in-house intelligence agency, the Office of Intelligence and Analysis -- called I&A within the department -- offered a report that is at odds with the Trump administration's view that blocking immigration from these seven countries strategically makes sense.

It's not clear if this was the conclusion of the I&A report but many DHS officials have said they do not think nationality is the best indicator of potential terrorist inclinations.

DHS press secretary Gillian Christensen confirmed CNN's report but dismissed it.

"While DHS was asked to draft a comprehensive report on this issue, the document you're referencing was commentary from a single intelligence source versus an official, robust document with thorough interagency vetting," she said.

A Department of Homeland Security source who asked for anonymity since he was not authorized to speak on the record said the report from the I&A officials did not meet the standards of the agency since it relied upon open source material and did not utilize necessary data from the intelligence community, specifically the FBI.

Others in DHS disagree with that assessment of the I&A report and a senior official in the Department of Homeland Security told CNN that some DHS officials are concerned that the new I&A director -- Acting Undersecretary for Intelligence David Glawe -- may be politicizing intelligence. One source familiar with the department told CNN that Glawe came into I&A "like a bull in a china shop."

A DHS official says the intention was to put together a comprehensive report with multiple sources and other agencies but the individuals in I&A did not do that to the standard that was required by their leadership, so Glawe said the report wasn't suffficient to go forward. Christensen said "the concerns were not about the conclusions but about the way the report was put together with accurate sourcing and proper staffing."

The seven countries were originally designated by DHS in the Obama administration for tighter immigration scrutiny -- removing them from the visa waiver program -- but not for a temporary suspension of immigration, as the Trump administration has attempted.

A second issue for many in the intelligence community is the notion of the Trump White House seeking an intelligence report to fit the policy instead of the other way around, sources tell CNN.

A senior government official told CNN that the normal procedure would be for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to be tasked with creating such an intelligence report, working with all relevant agencies and providing dissenting views. Theoretically, this would be done before the policy was formulated.

The senior White House official told CNN that it's possible that the National Counterterrorism Center, via the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and perhaps the National Security Council might also provide reports on the same subject.

A senior government official told CNN that the National Counterterrorism Center, via the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, has already been tasked with such a report, separately from DHS and DOJ. This has prompted some in government to wonder whether the White House is shopping around among agencies for the report that best bolsters their policy and legal support for it.

Other intelligence officials told CNN that such discussions among agencies about differing interpretations of the existing intelligence are not unusual and do not necessarily reflect an effort to "shop around" for intelligence to support a particular policy.

White House to make its case

The White House is determined to prove that the Ninth Circuit argument is wrong, as are Democrats and those in the media, that terror attacks do not predominantly originate from the seven countries targeted by Trump's order.

Rep. Jerrold Nadler said on CNN late last month that "the various people who have, in fact, committed terrorist acts in this country, from 9/11 on, none of them came from any of the seven countries that are the subject of the President's executive order."

The senior White House official told CNN that the Ninth Circuit's language that no one from those seven countries has "perpetrated a terrorist attack" or Nadler's comment that none had "committed terrorist acts" is false.

"It's using the most narrow definition of the term you can use," the official said -- referring only to those who had successful killed an innocent civilian. That definition does not include those who wounded Americans, or those who plotted but failed in their attacks, or those who tried to join or provide material support to a terrorist group. Information will soon be presented to the public that makes this stronger case using the broader definition.

A case in point: Somali-born Abdul Razak Ali Artan attempted to run over and stab 13 innocent people at Ohio State University last November. He and his family left Somalia in 2007 and moved to Pakistan, arriving in the US in 2014. He was a legal permanent resident. His attack would not count using the more narrow definition.

"In most cases, the American people don't hear about these cases," the senior White House official said, "but these cases have required thousands of man-hours by law enforcement in any number of plots to commit terrorism against this country. The threat is very jarring."

The White House official said the Obama administration tried to downplay the threat while the Trump administration believes in a culture of "very robust disclosure."

Asked about the report Thursday on "The Lead," Rep. Dan Donovan, R-New York, emphasized that the intelligence community be nonpartisan.

"They should take data, take information, shouldn't interpret it in a political way and provide the President the information he needs to make decisions to protect our country," he said.

Also commenting on the report was Richard Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who acknowledged that he hadn't seen the specifics but "it looks wrong to me."

"We ought to be doing the intel first, then set the policy and in large part based upon the intelligence," Haass said. "If these reports are true, it's yet another example where this administration is having real trouble forging a functional relationship with the intelligence community."

UPDATE: This story has been updated to reflect new information from the Department of Homeland Security.Story highlights "I came here at the age of 9 with my parents and my brother and sister," he said

DHS presented the administration's plan to aggressively enforce immigration laws

(CNN) Decades before being elected to Congress, Rep. Adriano Espaillat arrived in America as a young boy before becoming an undocumented immigrant from the Dominican Republic.

"I came here at the age of 9 with my parents and my brother and sister. We were here on a visa and overstayed," he told CNN's Alisyn Camerota Wednesday on "New Day." "I was a young boy but I remember my grandparents talking to us about being careful where we went, not approaching any strangers."

"It sent a chilling effect to anybody who doesn't have any documents," the New York Democrat said. "How do you move around? How do you go to school? How do you go to a store?"

Those days of living in fear of being deported shape his view of how children of undocumented parents must be processing President Donald Trump's immigration proposals, Espaillat said.

On Tuesday, the Department of Homeland Security presented memos detailing the administration's plan to aggressively enforce immigration laws. Trump's proposal could include a potentially massive expansion of the number of people detained and deported.

Read MoreANNOUNCE HIS NEW NOMINEE FOR SECRETARY OF LABOR

FEBRUARY 16, 2017

SPEAKER: PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP

[*]

TRUMP: Thank you very much.

I just wanted to begin by mentioning that the nominee for secretary of the Department of Labor will be Mr. Alex Acosta. He has a law degree from Harvard Law School, was a great student; former clerk for Justice Samuel Alito. And he has had a tremendous career. He's a member and has been a member of the National Labor Relations Board, and has been through Senate confirmation three times, confirmed; did very, very well.

And so Alex, I've wished him the best. We just spoke. And he's going to be -- I think he'll be a tremendous secretary of labor.

And also as you probably heard just a little while ago, Mick Mulvaney, former congressman, has just been approved weeks late, I have to say that, weeks, weeks late, Office of Management and Budget. And he will be I think a fantastic addition.

Paul Singer just left. As you know, Paul was very much involved with the anti-Trump or as they say, "never Trump." And Paul just left and he's given us his total support. And it's all about unification. We're unifying the party and hopefully we're going to be able to unify the country. It's very important to me. I've been talking about that for a long time. It's very, very important to me.

So I want to thank Paul Singer for being here and for coming up to the office. He was a very strong opponent, and now he's a very strong ally. And I appreciate that.

I think I'll say a few words, and then we'll take some questions. And I had this time. We've been negotiating a lot of different transactions to save money on contracts that were terrible, including airplane contracts that were out of control and late and terrible; just absolutely catastrophic in terms of what was happening. And we've done some really good work. We're very proud of that.

And then right after that, you prepare yourselves, we'll do some questions, unless you have enough questions. That's always a possibility.

I'm here today to update the American people on the incredible progress that has been made in the last four weeks since my inauguration. We have made incredible progress. I don't think there's ever been a president elected who in this short period of time has done what we've done.

A new Rasmussen poll, in fact -- because the people get it -- much of the media doesn't get it. They actually get it, but they don't write it. Let's put it that way. But a new Rasmussen poll just came out just a very short while ago, and it has our approval rating at 55 percent and going up. The stock market has hit record numbers, as you know. And there has been a tremendous surge of optimism in the business world, which is -- to me means something much different than it used to. It used to mean, "Oh, that's good." Now it means, "That's good for jobs." Very different.

Plants and factories are already starting to move back into the United States, and big league -- Ford, General Motors, so many of them. I'm making this presentation directly to the American people, with the media present, which is an honor to have you. This morning, because many of our nation's reporters and folks will not tell you the truth, and will not treat the wonderful people of our country with the respect that they deserve. And I hope going forward we can be a little bit -- a little bit different, and maybe get along a little bit better, if that's possible. Maybe it's not, and that's OK, too.

TRUMP: Unfortunately, much of the media in Washington, D.C., along with New York, Los Angeles in particular, speaks not for the people, but for the special interests and for those profiting off a very, very obviously broken system. The press has become so dishonest that if we don't talk about, we are doing a tremendous disservice to the American people. Tremendous disservice. We have to talk to find out what's going on, because the press honestly is out of control. The level of dishonesty is out of control.

I ran for president to present the citizens of our country. I am here to change the broken system so it serves their families and their communities well. I am talking -- and really talking on this very entrenched power structure, and what we're doing is we're talking about the power structure; we're talking about its entrenchment. As a result, the media is going through what they have to go through too often times distort - not all the time - and some of the media is fantastic, I have to say - they're honest and fantastic.

But much of it is not a - the distortion -- and we'll talk about it, you'll be able to ask me questions about it. But we're not going to let it happen, because I'm here again, to take my message straight to the people. As you know, our administration inherited many problems across government and across the economy. To be honest, I inherited a mess. It's a mess. At home and abroad, a mess. Jobs are pouring out of the country; you see what's going on with all of the companies leaving our country, going to Mexico and other places, low pay, low wages, mass instability overseas, no matter where you look. The middle east is a disaster. North Korea - we'll take care of it folks; we're going to take care of it all. I just want to let you know, I inherited a mess.

Beginning on day one, our administration went to work to tackle these challenges. On foreign affairs, we've already begun enormously productive talks with many foreign leaders, much of it you've covered, to move forward towards stability, security and peace in the most troubled regions of the world, which there are many. We have had great conversations with the United Kingdom, and meetings. Israel, Mexico, Japan, China and Canada, really, really productive conversations. I would say far more productive than you would understand.

We've even developed a new council with Canada to promote women's business leaders and entrepreneurs. It's very important to me, very important to my daughter Ivanka. I have directed our defense community headed by our great general, now Secretary Mattis. He's over there now working very hard to submit a plan for the defeat of ISIS, a group that celebrates the murder and torture of innocent people in large sections of the world. It used to be a small group, now it's in large sections of the world.

They've spread like cancer. ISIS has spread like cancer - another mess I inherited. And we have imposed new sanctions on the nation of Iran, whose totally taken advantage of our previous administration, and they're the world's top sponsor of terrorism, and we're not going to stop until that problem is properly solved. And it's not properly solved now, it's one of the worst agreements I've ever seen drawn by anybody. I've ordered plan to begin building for the massive rebuilding of the United States military. Had great support from the Senate, I've had great from Congress, generally.

We've pursued this rebuilding in the hopes that we will never have to use this military, and I will tell you that is my - I would be so happy if we never had to use it. But our country will never have had a military like the military we're about to build and rebuild. We have the greatest people on earth in our military, but they don't have the right equipment and their equipment is old. I used it; I talked about it at every stop. Depleted, it's depleted - it won't be depleted for long. And I think one of the reason I'm standing here instead of other people is that frankly, I talked about we have to have a strong military.

We have to have a strong law enforcement also. So we do not go abroad in the search of war, we really are searching for peace, but its peace through strength. At home, we have begun the monumental task of returning the government back to the people on a scale not seen in many, many years. In each of these actions, I'm keeping my promises to the American people. These are campaign promises. Some people are so surprised that we're having strong borders.

Well, that's what I've been talking about for a year and a half, strong borders. They're so surprised, oh, he having strong borders, well that's what I've been talking about to the press and to everybody else. One promise after another after years of politicians lying to you to get elected. They lied to the American people in order to get elected. Some of the things I'm doing probably aren't popular but they're necessary for security and for other reasons.

And then coming to Washington and pursuing their own interests which is more important to many politicians. I'm here following through on what I pledged to do. That's all I'm doing. I put it out before the American people, got 306 electoral college votes. I wasn't supposed to get 222. They said there's no way to get 222, 230's impossible.

270 which you need, that was laughable. We got 306 because people came out and voted like they've never seen before so that's the way it goes. I guess it was the biggest electoral college win since Ronald Reagan. In other words, the media's trying to attack our administration because they know we are following through on pledges that we made and they're not happy about it for whatever reason.

And - but a lot of people are happy about it. In fact, I'll be in Melbourne, Florida five o'clock on Saturday and I heard - just heard that the crowds are massive that want to be there. I turn on the T.V., open the newspapers and I see stories of chaos. Chaos. Yet it is the exact opposite. This administration is running like a fine- tuned machine, despite the fact that I can't get my cabinet approved.

And they're outstanding people like Senator Dan Coats who's there, one of the most respected men of the Senate. He can't get approved. How do you not approve him? He's been a colleague - highly respected. Brilliant guy, great guy, everybody knows it. We're waiting for approval. So we have a wonderful group of people that's working very hard, that's being very much misrepresented about and we can't let that happen.

So, if the Democrats who have - all you have to do is look at where they are right now. The only thing they can do is delay because they screwed things up royally, believe me. Let me list to you some of the things that we've done in just a short period of time. I just got here. And I got here with no cabinet. Again, each of these actions is a promise I made to the American people.

I'll go over just some of them and we have a lot happening next week and in the weeks - in the weeks coming. We've withdrawn from the job-killing disaster known as Trans Pacific Partnership. We're going to make trade deals but we're going to have one on one deals, bilateral. We're going to have one on one deals.

We've directed the elimination of regulations that undermine manufacturing and call for expedited approval of the permits needed for America and American infrastructure and that means plant, equipment, roads, bridges, factories. People take 10, 15, 20 years to get disapproved for a factory. They go in for a permit, it's many, many years. And then at the end of the process -- they spend 10s of millions of dollars on nonsense and at the end of the process, they get rejected.

Now, they may be rejected with me but it's going to be a quick rejection. Not going to take years. But mostly it's going to be an acceptance. We want plants built and we want factories built and we want the jobs. We don't want the jobs going to other countries. We've imposed a hiring freeze on non-essential federal workers. We've imposed a temporary moratorium on new federal regulations.

We've issued a game-changing new rule that says for each one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. Makes sense. Nobody's ever seen regulations like we have. You go to other countries and you look at indexes (ph) they have and you say "let me see your regulations" and they're fraction, just a tiny fraction of what we have. And I want regulations because I want safety, I want environmental - all environmental situations to be taken properly care of. It's very important to me. But you don't need four or five or six regulations to take care of the same thing.

We've stood up for the men and women of law enforcement, directing federal agencies to ensure they are protected from crimes of violence. We've directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including the horrendous situation -- take a look at Chicago and others, taking place right now in our inner cities. Horrible.

We've ordered the Department of Homeland Security and Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy criminal cartels coming into the United States with drugs. We're becoming a drug infested nation. Drugs are becoming cheaper than candy bars. We are not going to let it happen any longer.

We've undertaken the most substantial border security measures in a generation to keep our nation and our tax dollars safe. And are now in the process of beginning to build a promised wall on the southern border, met with general -- now Secretary Kelly yesterday and we're starting that process. And the wall is going to be a great wall and it's going to be a wall negotiated by me. The price is going to come down just like it has on everything else I've negotiated for the government. And we are going to have a wall that works, not gonna have a wall like they have now which is either non-existent or a joke.

We've ordered a crackdown on sanctuary cities that refuse to comply with federal law and that harbor criminal aliens, and we have ordered an end to the policy of catch and release on the border. No more release. No matter who you are, release. We have begun a nationwide effort to remove criminal aliens, gang members, drug dealers and others who pose a threat to public safety. We are saving American lives every single day.

The court system has not made it easy for us. And are even creating a new office in Homeland Security dedicated to the forgotten American victims of illegal immigrant violence, which there are many. We have taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country. No parts are necessary and constitutional actions were blocked by judges, in my opinion, incorrect, and unsafe ruling. Our administration is working night and day to keep you safe, including reporters safe. And is vigorously defending this lawful order.

I will not back down from defending our country. I got elected on defense of our country. I keep my campaign promises, and our citizens will be very happy when they see the result. They already are, I can tell you that. Extreme vetting will be put in place and it already is in place in many places.

In fact, we had to go quicker than we thought because of the bad decision we received from a circuit that has been overturned at a record number. I have heard 80 percent, I find that hard to believe, that is just a number I heard, that they are overturned 80 percent of the time. I think that circuit is -- that circuit is in chaos and that circuit is frankly in turmoil. But we are appealing that, and we are going further.

We're issuing a new executive action next week that will comprehensively protect our country. So we'll be going along the one path and hopefully winning that, at the same time we will be issuing a new and very comprehensive order to protect our people. That will be done sometime next week, toward the beginning or middle at the latest part. We have also taken steps to begin construction of the Keystone Pipeline and Dakota Access Pipelines. Thousands and thousands of jobs, and put new buy American measures in place to require American steel for American pipelines. In other words, they build a pipeline in this country, and we use the powers of government to make that pipeline happen, we want them to use American steel. And they are willing to do that, but nobody ever asked before I came along. Even this order was drawn and they didn't say that.

TRUMP: And I'm reading the order, I'm saying, why aren't we using American steel? And they said, that's a good idea, we put it in. To drain the swamp of corruption in Washington, D.C., I've started by imposing a five-year lobbying ban on White House officials and a lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government.

We've begun preparing to repeal and replace Obamacare. Obamacare is a disaster, folks. It is's disaster. I know you can say, oh, Obamacare. I mean, they fill up our alleys with people that you wonder how they get there, but they are not the Republican people our that representatives are representing.

So we've begun preparing to repeal and replace Obamacare, and are deep in the midst of negotiations on a very historic tax reform to bring our jobs back, to bring our jobs back to this country. Big league. It's already happening. But big league.

I've also worked to install a cabinet over the delays and obstruction of Senate Democrats. You've seen what they've done over the last long number of years. That will be one of the great cabinets ever assembled in American history.

You look at Rex Tillerson. He's out there negotiating right now. General Mattis I mentioned before, General Kelly. We have great, great people. Mick is with us now. We have great people.

Among their responsibilities will be ending the bleeding of jobs from our country and negotiating fair trade deals for our citizens.

Now look, fair trade. Not free, fair. If a country is taking advantage of us, not going to let that happen anymore. Every country takes advantage of us almost. I may be able to find a couple that don't. But for the most part, that would be a very tough job for me to do.

Jobs have already started to surge. Since my election, Ford announced it will abandon its plans to build a new factory in Mexico, and will instead invest $700 million in Michigan, creating many, many jobs.

Fiat Chrysler announced it will invest $1 billion in Ohio and Michigan, creating 2,000 new American jobs. They were with me a week ago. You know you were here.

General Motors likewise committed to invest billions of dollars in its American manufacturing operation, keeping many jobs here that were going to leave. And if I didn't get elected, believe me, they would have left. And these jobs and these things that I'm announcing would never have come here.

Intel just announced that it will move ahead with a new plant in Arizona that probably was never going to move ahead with. And that will result in at least 10,000 American jobs.

Walmart announced it will create 10,000 jobs in the United States just this year because of our various plans and initiatives. There will be many, many more, many more, these are a few that we're naming.

Other countries have been taking advantage of us for decades -- decades, and decades, and decades, folks. And we're not going to let that happen anymore. Not going to let it happen.

And one more thing, I have kept my promise to the American people by nominating a justice of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch, who is from my list of 20, and who will be a true defender of our laws and our Constitution, highly respected, should get the votes from the Democrats. You may not see that. But he'll get there one way or the other. But he should get there the old-fashioned way, and he should get those votes.

This last month has represented an unprecedented degree of action on behalf of the great citizens of our country. Again, I say it. There has never been a presidency that's done so much in such a short period of time. And we have not even started the big work yet. That starts early next week.

Some very big things are going to be announced next week. So we are just getting started. We will be giving a speech, as I said, in Melbourne, Florida, at 5:00 p.m. I hope to see you there.

And with that, I just say, God bless America, and let's take some questions.

Mara (ph), Mara (ph), go ahead. You were cut off pretty violently at our last news conference.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

TRUMP: Mike Flynn is a fine person, and I asked for his resignation. He respectfully gave it. He is a man who there was a certain amount of information given to Vice President Pence, who is with us today. And I was not happy with the way that information was given.

He didn't have to do that, because what he did wasn't wrong -- what he did in terms of the information he saw. What was wrong was the way that other people, including yourselves in this room, were given that information, because that was classified information that was given illegally. That's the real problem.

And, you know, you can talk all you want about Russia, which was all a, you know, fake news, fabricated deal, to try and make up for the loss of the Democrats and the press plays right into it. In fact, I saw a couple of the people that were supposedly involved with all of this -- that they know nothing about it; they weren't in Russia; they never made a phone call to Russia; they never received a phone call.

It's all fake news. It's all fake news. The nice thing is, I see it starting to turn, where people are now looking at the illegal -- I think it's very important -- the illegal, giving out classified information. It was -- and let me just tell you, it was given out like so much.

I'll give you an example. I called, as you know, Mexico. It was a very, very confidential, classified call. But I called Mexico. And in calling Mexico, I figured, oh, well that's -- I spoke to the president of Mexico; I had a good call. All of a sudden, it's out there for the world to see. It's supposed to be secret. It's supposed to be either confidential or classified, in that case.

Same thing with Australia. All of a sudden, people are finding out exactly what took place. The same thing happened with respect to General Flynn. Everybody saw this. And I'm saying -- the first thing I thought of when I heard about it is: How does the press get this information that's classified? How do they do it?

You know why? Because it's an illegal process and the press should be ashamed of themselves. But more importantly, the people that gave out the information to the press should be ashamed of themselves, really ashamed.

Yes, go ahead.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

TRUMP: Because when I looked at the information, I said, "I don't think he did anything wrong; if anything, he did something right." He was coming into office. He looked at the information. He said, "Huh, that's fine." That's what they're supposed to do. They're supposed to -- he didn't just call Russia. He called and spoke to both ways, I think there were 30-some-odd countries. He's doing the job.

You know, he was doing his job. The thing is, he didn't tell our vice president properly, and then he said he didn't remember. So either way, it wasn't very satisfactory to me. And I have somebody that I think will be outstanding for the position. And that also helps, I think, in the making of my decision.

But he didn't tell the vice president of the United States the facts. And then he didn't remember. And that just wasn't acceptable to me.

Yes?

QUESTION: (inaudible) clarification here. During your campaign, did anyone from your team (inaudible) Russian government or Russian intelligence? And if so, what was the nature of those conversations (inaudible)? TRUMP: The failing New York Times wrote a big, long front-page story yesterday. And it was very much discredited, as you know. It was -- it's a joke. And the people mentioned in the story, I notice they were on television today saying they never even spoke to Russia. They weren't even a part, really -- I mean, they were such a minor part. They -- I hadn't spoken to them.

I think the one person -- I don't think I've ever spoken to him. I don't think I've ever met him. And he actually said he was a very low-level member of I think a committee for a short period of time. I don't think I ever met him. Now, it's possible that I walked into a room and he was sitting there, but I don't think I ever met him. I didn't talk to him ever. And he thought it was a joke.

The other person said he never spoke to Russia; never received a call. Look at his phone records, et cetera, et cetera. And the other person, people knew that he represented various countries, but I don't think he represented Russia, but knew that he represented various countries. That's what he does. I mean, people know that.

That's Mr. Manafort, who's -- by the way, who's by the way a respected man. He's a respected man. But I think he represented the Ukraine or Ukraine government or somebody, but everybody -- people knew that. Everybody knew that.

So, these people -- and he said that he has absolutely nothing to do and never has with Russia. And he said that very forcefully. I saw his statement. He said it very forcefully. Most of the papers don't print it because that's not good for their stories.

TRUMP: So the three people that they talked about all totally deny it. And I can tell you, speaking for myself, I own nothing in Russia. I have no loans in Russia. I don't have any deals in Russia. President Putin called me up very nicely to congratulate me on the win of the election.

He then, called me up extremely nicely to congratulate me on the inauguration, which was terrific. But so did many other leaders, almost all other leaders from almost all of the country. So that's the extent.

Russia is fake news. Russia -- this is fake news put out by the media. The real news is the fact that people, probably from the Obama administration because they're there, because we have our new people going in place, right now.

As you know, Mike Pompeo has -- has now taken control of the CIA, James Comey at FBI, Dan Coats is waiting to be approved, I mean he is a senator and a highly respected one and he's still waiting to be approved. But our new people are going in.

And just while you're at it, because you mentioned this, Wall Street Journal did a story today that was almost as disgraceful as the failing New York Time's story, yesterday. And it talked about -- these are (ph) front page.

So director of national intelligence just put out, acting a statement, any suggestion that the United States intelligence community, this was just given to us, is withholding information and not providing the best possible intelligence to the president and his national security team is not true.

So they took this front page story out of The Wall Street Journal top and they just wrote the story that its not true. And I'll tell you something, I'll be honest, because I sort of enjoy this back and forth that I guess I have all my life but I've never seen more dishonest media than frankly, the political media. I thought the financial media was much better, much more honest.

But I will say that, I never get phone calls from the media. How did they write a story like that in The Wall Street Journal without asking me or how did they write a story in The New York Times, put it on front page?

That was like the story they wrote about the women and me, front page, big massive story. And it was nasty and then they called, they said we never said that, we like Mr. Trump. They called up my office, we like Mr. Trump, we never said that.

And it was totally -- they totally misrepresented those very wonderful women, I have to tell you, totally misrepresented. I said give us the retraction. They never gave us a retraction and frankly, I then went on to other things.

OK, go ahead.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) said today that you have big intellectual margins (inaudible) 300 or more (ph), or 350 (ph) electoral (ph) votes. President Obama about 365 (OFF-MIKE).

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Yeah.

QUESTION: Obama (OFF-MIKE) 426 on (OFF-MIKE). So why should Americans...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: ...I'm skipping that information, I don't know, I was just given (ph) we had a very, very big margin.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) why should Americans trust you (OFF-MIKE) the information (OFF-MIKE)?

TRUMP: Well, I don't know, I was given that information. I was given -- I actually, I've seen that information around. But it was a very substantial victory, do you agree with that? OK thank you, that's...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Go ahead Sir, yes?

QUESTION: Can you tell us in determining that Lieutenant General Flynn did -- whether there was no wrongdoing in your mind, what evidence was weighed? Did you ask for transcripts of these telephone intercepts with Russian officials, particularly the Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, who he was communicating with?

What-- what evidence did you weigh to determine that there was no wrongdoing? Further to that, Sir, you said on a couple of locations this morning, you are going to aggressively pursue the source of these leaks.

TRUMP: We are.

QUESTION: Can we ask what you're going to do and also, we've heard about a -- a review of the intelligence community headed up by Steven Feinberg, what can you tell us about that?

TRUMP: Well, first of all about that, we now have Dan Coats, hopefully soon, Mike Pompeo and James Comey and they're in position so I hope that we'll be able to straighten that out without using anybody else.

The gentleman you mentioned is a very talented man, very successful man and he's offered his services and you know, it's something we may take advantage of. But I don't think we're need that at all because of the fact that you know, I think that we are gonna be able to straighten it out very easily on its own.

As far as the general's concerned, when I first heard about it, I said huh, that doesn't sound wrong. My counsel came, Don McGahn, White House Counsel, and he told me and I asked him, he can speak very well for himself. He said he doesn't think anything is wrong, you know, really didn't think.

It was really, what happened after that but he didn't think anything was done wrong. I didn't either because I waited a period of time and I started to think about it, I said "well I don't see" -- to me, he was doing the job.

The information was provided by -- who I don't know, Sally Yates. And I was a little surprised because I said "doesn't sound like he did anything wrong there." But he did something wrong with respect to the vice president and I thought that was not acceptable. As far as -- as far as the actual making the call, fact I've watched various programs and I've read various articles where he was just doing his job.

That was very normal. You know, first everybody got excited because they thought he did something wrong. After they thought about it, it turned out he was just doing his job. So -- and I do. And by the way, with all of that being said, I do think he's a fine man.

QUESTION: Sir, if I could, on the leaks -- on the leaks, sir...

TRUMP: ...Go ahead. Finish off then I'll get you.

QUESTION: I'm sorry. What will you do on the leaks? You've said twice today...

TRUMP: ...Yes, we're looking at them very -- very, very serious. I've gone to all of the folks in charge of the various agencies and we're -- I've actually called the Justice Department to look into the leaks. Those are criminal leaks. They're put out by people either in agencies -- I think you'll see it stopping because now we have our people in. You know, again, we don't have our people in because we can't get them approved by the Senate.

We just had Jeff Sessions approved. Injustice, as an example (ph). So, we are looking into that very seriously. It's a criminal act. You know what I say, when I -- when I was called out on Mexico, I was shocked because all this equipment, all this incredible phone equipment -- when I was called out on Mexico, I was -- honestly, I was really, really surprised.

But I said "you know, it doesn't make sense. That won't happen" but that wasn't that important a call, it was fine, I could show it to the world and he could show it to the world, the president who's a very fine man, by the way. Same thing with Australia. I said "that's terrible that it was leaked" but it wasn't that important. But then I said to myself "what happens when I'm dealing with the problem of North Korea?"

What happens when I'm dealing with the problems in the Middle East? Are you folks going to be reporting all of that very, very confidential information, very important, very -- you know, I mean at the highest level? Are you going to be reporting about that too? So, I don't want classified information getting out to the public and in a way that was almost a test.

So I'm dealing with Mexico, I'm dealing with Argentina, we were dealing on this case with Mike Flynn. All this information gets put into the "Washington Post" and gets put into the "New York Times" and I'm saying "what's going to happen when I'm dealing on the Middle East? What's going to happen when I'm dealing with really, really important subjects like North Korea?

We got to stop it. That's why it's a criminal penalty.

QUESTION: I just want to get you to clarify this very important point. Can you say definitively that nobody on your campaign had any contacts with the Russians during the campaign? And on the leaks, is it fake news or are these real leaks?

TRUMP: Well the leaks are real. You're the one that wrote about them and reported them, I mean the leaks are real. You know what they said, you saw it and the leaks are absolutely real. The news is fake because so much of the news is fake. So one thing that I felt it was very important to do -- and I hope we can correct it. Because there's nobody I have more respect for -- well, maybe a little bit but the reporters, good reporters.

It's very important to me and especially in this position. It's very important. I don't mind bad stories. I can handle a bad story better than anybody as long as it's true and, you know, over a course of time, I'll make mistakes and you'll write badly and I'm OK with that. But I'm not OK when it is fake. I mean, I watch CNN, it's so much anger and hatred and just the hatred.

I don't watch it any more because it's very good -- he's saying no. It's OK, Jim (ph). It's OK, Jim (ph), you'll have your chance. But I watch others too. You're not the only one so don't feel badly. But I think it should be straight. I think it should be -- I think it would be frankly more interesting. I know how good everybody's ratings are right now but I think that actually -- I think that'd actually be better.

People -- I mean, you have a lower approval rate than Congress. I think that's right. I don't know, Peter (ph), is that one right? Because you know I think they have lower -- I heard lower than Congress. But honestly, the public would appreciate it, I'd appreciate it -- again, I don't mind bad stories when it's true but we have an administration where the Democrats are making it very difficult.

TRUMP: I think we're setting a record or close to a record in the time of approval of a cabinet. I mean, the numbers are crazy. When I'm looking, some of them had them approved immediately.

I'm going forever and I still have a lot of people that we're waiting for. And that's all they're doing, is delaying. And you look at Schumer and the mess that he's got over there and they have nothing going. The only thing they can do is delay. And, you know, I think that they'd be better served by, you know, approving and making sure that they're happy and everybody's good.

And sometimes -- I mean, I know President Obama lost three or four, and you lose them on the way, and that's OK. That's fine. But I think it would -- I think they would be much better served, John, if they just went through the process quickly. This is pure delay tactics.

And they say it, and everybody understands it. Yeah, go ahead, Jimmy.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

TRUMP: Well, I had nothing to do with it. I have nothing to do with Russia. I told you, I have no deals there, I have no anything. Now, when WikiLeaks, which I had nothing to do with, comes out and happens to give, they're not giving classified information. They're giving stuff -- what was said at an office about Hillary cheating on the debates.

Which, by the way, nobody mentions. Nobody mentions that Hillary received the questions to the debates. Can you imagine -- seriously -- can you imagine if I received the questions? It would be the electric chair. OK, he should be put in the electric -- you would even call for the reinstitution of the death penalty, OK. Maybe not you John. Yes? We'll do you next Jim, I do you next(ph).

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) clarify --

TRUMP: Yes, yes, sure

QUESTION: Did you direct Mike Flynn to discuss sanctions with the Russian ambassador --

TRUMP: No, I didn't.

QUESTION: -- prior to your -- TRUMP: No, I didn't.

QUESTION: -- inauguration.

TRUMP: No, I didn't.

QUESTION: And then fired him --

TRUMP: Excuse me.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

TRUMP: No, I fired him because of what he said to Mike Pence. Very simple. Mike was doing his job. He was calling countries and his counterparts. So, it certainly would have been OK with me if he did it. I would have directed him to do it if I thought he wasn't doing it.

I didn't direct him, but I would have directed him because that's his job. And it came out that way -- and in all fairness, I watched Dr. Charles Krauthammer the other night say he was doing his job and I agreed with him. And since then, I've watched many other people say that.

No, I didn't direct him, but I would have directed him if he didn't do it. OK? Jim?

QUESTION: Thank you very much, and just for the record, we don't hate you. I don't hate you.

TRUMP: OK.

QUESTION: So, pass that along --

TRUMP: Ask -- ask Jeff Zucker how he got his job. OK?

QUESTION: If I may follow up on some of the questions that have taken place so far here, sir --

TRUMP: Well, that's -- well, you know, we do have other people. You do have other people and your ratings aren't as good as some of the other people that are waiting.

QUESTION: It's pretty good right now, actually.

TRUMP: OK, go ahead, John.

QUESTION: If I may ask, sir, you said earlier that WikiLeaks was revealing information about the Hillary Clinton campaign during the election cycle. You welcomed that. At one time --

TRUMP: I was OK with it.

QUESTION: -- you said -- you said that you loved WikiLeaks. At another campaign press conference you called on the Russians to find the missing 30,000 e-mails. I'm wondering, sir, if you -- TRUMP: Well, she was actually missing 33 and then that got extended with a pile after that.

QUESTION: Then(ph), your(ph) numbers(ph) were off too.

TRUMP: No -- no, but I did say 30. But it was actually higher than that.

QUESTION: If -- if I may ask you, sir, it -- it sounds as though you do not have much credibility here when it comes to leaking if that is something that you encouraged during(ph) the campaign --

TRUMP: OK, fair question. Ready?

QUESTION: Well, if I may ask you that --

TRUMP: No -- no, but let me do one at a time.

QUESTION: If I may as a follow up?

TRUMP: Do you mind?

QUESTION: Yes, sir.

TRUMP: All right. So, in one case, you're talking about highly classified information. In the other case, you're talking about John Podesta saying bad things about the boss. I will say this, if John Podesta said that about me and he was working for me, I would have fired him so fast your head would have spun.

He said terrible things about her. But it wasn't classified information. But in one case, you're talking about classified -- regardless, if you look at the RNC, we had a very strong -- at my suggestion -- and I give Reince great credit for this -- at my suggestion, because I know something about this world, I said I want a very strong defensive mechanism.

I don't want to be hacked. And we did that. And you have seen that they tried to hack us and they failed. The DNC did not do that. And if they did it, they could not have been hacked. But they were hacked and terrible things came in. And, you know, the only thing that I do think is unfair is some of the things were so -- they were -- when I heard some of those things I picked up the papers the next morning and said, oh, this is going to be front page, it wasn't even in the papers.

Again, if I had that happen to me, it would be the biggest story in the history of publishing or the head of newspapers. I would have been headline in every newspaper. I mean, think of it. They gave her the questions to a debate and she -- and she should have reported herself.

Why did Hillary Clinton announce that, "I'm sorry, but I have been given the questions to a debate or a town hall, and I feel that it's inappropriate, and I want to turn in CNN for not doing a good job." QUESTION: And if I may follow up on that, just something that Jonathan Karl (ph) was asking you about. You said that the leaks are real, but the news is fake. I guess I don't understand. It seems that there's a disconnect there. If the information coming from those leaks is real, then how can the stories be fake?

TRUMP: The reporting is fake. Look, look...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: You know what it is? Here's the thing. The public isn't -- you know, they read newspapers, they see television, they watch. They don't know if it's true or false because they're not involved. I'm involved. I've been involved with this stuff all my life. But I'm involved. So I know when you're telling the truth or when you're not. I just see many, many untruthful things.

And I'll tell you what else I see. I see tone. You know the word "tone." The tone is such hatred. I'm really not a bad person, by the way. No, but the tone is such -- I do get good ratings, you have to admit that -- the tone is such hatred.

I watched this morning a couple of the networks. And I have to say, Fox & Friends in the morning, they're very honorable people. They're very -- not because they're good, because they hit me also when I do something wrong. But they have the most honest morning show. That's all I can say. It's the most honest.

But the tone, Jim. If you look -- the hatred. The, I mean, sometimes -- sometimes somebody gets...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Well, you look at your show that goes on at 10 o'clock in the evening. You just take a look at that show. That is a constant hit. The panel is almost always exclusive anti-Trump. The good news is he doesn't have good ratings. But the panel is almost exclusive anti-Trump. And the hatred and venom coming from his mouth; the hatred coming from other people on your network.

Now, I will say this. I watch it. I see it. I'm amazed by it. And I just think you'd be a lot better off, I honestly do. The public gets it, you know. Look, when I go to rallies, they turn around, they start screaming at CNN. They want to throw their placards at CNN. You know.

I -- I think you would do much better by being different. But you just take a look. Take a look at some of your shows in the morning and the evening. If a guest comes out and says something positive about me, it's -- it's brutal.

Now, they'll take this news conference -- I'm actually having a very good time, OK? But they'll take this news conference -- don't forget, that's the way I won. Remember, I used to give you a news conference every time I made a speech, which was like every day. OK?

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: No, that's how I won. I won with news conferences and probably speeches. I certainly didn't win by people listening to you people. That's for sure. But I'm having a good time.

Tomorrow, they will say, "Donald Trump rants and raves at the press." I'm not ranting and raving. I'm just telling you. You know, you're dishonest people. But -- but I'm not ranting and raving. I love this. I'm having a good time doing it.

But tomorrow, the headlines are going to be, "Donald Trump rants and raves." I'm not ranting and raving.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: If I may, just one more followup...

TRUMP: Should I let him have a little bit more? What do you think, Peter? Peter, should I have -- let him have a little bit more?

Sit down. Sit down. We'll...

(CROSSTALK)

QUESTION: Just because of the attack of fake news and attacking our network, I just want to ask you, sir...

TRUMP: I'm changing it from fake news, though.

QUESTION: Doesn't that under...

TRUMP: Very fake news.

QUESTION: ... I know, but aren't you...

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: Go ahead.

QUESTION: Real news, Mr. President, real news.

TRUMP: And you're not related to our new...

QUESTION: I am not related, sir. No. I do like the sound of Secretary Acosta, I must say.

TRUMP: I looked -- you know, I looked at that name. I said, wait a minute, is there any relation there? Alex Acosta.

QUESTION: I'm sure you checked that out, sir.

TRUMP: OK. Now I checked it -- I said -- they said, "No, sir." I said, "Do me a favor, go back and check the family tree."

QUESTION: But aren't you -- aren't you concerned, sir, that you are undermining the people's faith in the First Amendment, freedom of the press, the press in this country, when you call stories you don't like "fake news"? Why not just say it's a story I don't like.

TRUMP: I do that.

QUESTION: When you call it "fake news," you're undermining confidence in our news media (inaudible) important.

TRUMP: No, no. I do that. Here's the thing. OK. I understand what you're -- and you're right about that, except this. See, I know when I should get good and when I should get bad. And sometimes I'll say, "Wow, that's going to be a great story." And I'll get killed.

I know what's good and bad. I'd be a pretty good reporter, not as good as you. But I know what's good. I know what's bad. And when they change it and make it really bad, something that should be positive -- sometimes something that should be very positive, they'll make OK. They'll even make it negative.

So I understand it. So, because I'm there. I know what was said. I know who's saying it. I'm there. So it's very important to me.

Look, I want to see an honest press. When I started off today by saying that it's so important to the public to get an honest press. The press -- the public doesn't believe you people anymore. Now, maybe I had something to do with that. I don't know. But they don't believe you. If you were straight and really told it like it is, as Howard Cosell used to say, right?

Of course, he had some questions also. But if you were straight, I would be your biggest booster. I would be your biggest fan in the world, including bad stories about me. But if you go - as an example, you're CNN, I mean it's story after story after story is bad. I won. I won. And the other thing, chaos because zero chaos. We are running - this is a fine-tuned machine and Reince happens to be doing a good job but half of his job is putting out lies by the press (ph).

You know, I said to him yesterday this whole Russia scam that you guys are building so that you don't talk about the real subject which is illegal leaks, but I watched him yesterday working so hard to try and get that story proper. And I'm saying "here's my chief of staff," a really good guy, did a phenomenal job at RNC. I mean, he won the election, right?

We won the presidency. We got some senators, we got some - all over the country, you take a look, he's done a great job. And I said to myself, you know - and I said to somebody that was in the room, I said "you take a look at Reince, he's working so hard just putting out fires that are fake fires." I mean, they're fake. They're not true. And isn't that a shame because he'd rather be working on healthcare, he'd rather be working on tax reform, Jim (ph).

I mean that. I would be your biggest fan in the world if you treated me right. I sort of understand there's a certain bias maybe by Jeff (ph) or somebody, you know - you know, whatever reason. But - and I understand that. But you've got to be at least a little bit fair and that's why the public sees it. They see it. They see it's not fair. You take a look at some of your shows and you see the bias and the hatred.

And the public is smart, they understand it. Go ahead.

QUESTION: (inaudible) ...for those who believe that there is something to it, is there anything that you have learned over the last few weeks that you might be able to reveal that might ease their concerns that this isn't fake news? And second...

TRUMP: ...I think they don't believe it. I don't think the public - that's why the Rasmussen poll just has me through the roof. I don't think they believe it. Well, I guess one of the reasons I'm here today is to tell you the whole Russian thing, that's a ruse. That's a ruse. And by the way, it would be great if we could get along with Russia, just so you understand that.

Now tomorrow, you'll say "Donald Trump wants to get along with Russia, this is terrible." It's not terrible. It's good. We had Hillary Clinton try and do a reset. We had Hillary Clinton give Russia 20 percent of the uranium in our country. You know what uranium is, right? This thing called nuclear weapons like lots of things are done with uranium including some bad things.

Nobody talks about that. I didn't do anything for Russia. I've done nothing for Russia. Hillary Clinton gave them 20 percent of our uranium. Hillary Clinton did a reset, remember? With the stupid plastic button that made us all look like a bunch of jerks. Here, take a look. He looked at her like, what the hell is she doing with that cheap plastic button?

Hillary Clinton - that was the reset, remember it said reset? Now if I do that, oh, I'm a bad guy. If we could get along with Russia, that's a positive thing. We have a very talented man, Rex Tillerson, who's going to be meeting with them shortly and I told him. I said "I know politically it's probably not good for me." The greatest thing I could do is shoot that ship that's 30 miles off shore right out of the water.

Everyone in this country's going to say "oh, it's so great." That's not great. That's not great. I would love to be able to get along with Russia. Now, you've had a lot of presidents that haven't taken that tack. Look where we are now. Look where we are now. So, if I can - now, I love to negotiate things, I do it really well, and all that stuff. But - but it's possible I won't be able to get along with Putin.

Maybe it is. But I want to just tell you, the false reporting by the media, by you people, the false, horrible, fake reporting makes it much harder to make a deal with Russia. And probably Putin said "you know." He's sitting behind his desk and he's saying "you know, I see what's going on in the United States, I follow it closely. It's going to be impossible for President Trump to ever get along with Russia because of all the pressure he's got with this fake story." OK?

And that's a shame because if we could get along with Russia - and by the way, China and Japan and everyone. If we could get along, it would be a positive thing, not a negative thing.

QUESTION: Is tax reform on the line (ph)?

QUESTION: Mr. President? Mr. President? Mr. President, since you...

TRUMP: Tax reform is going to happen fairly quickly. We're doing Obamacare. We're in final stages. We should be submitting the initial plan in March, early March, I would say. And we have to, as you know, statutorily and for reasons of budget, we have to go first. It's not like, frankly, the tax would be easier, in my opinion, but for statutory reasons and for budgetary reasons, we have to submit the healthcare sooner.

So we'll be submitting healthcare sometime in early March, mid- March. And after that, we're going to come up, and we're doing very well on tax reform.

Yes?

QUESTION: Mr. President, you mentioned Russia. Let's talk about some serious issues that have come up in the last week that you have had to deal with as president of the United States.

TRUMP: OK.

QUESTION: You mentioned the vessel -- the spy vessel off the coast of the United States.

TRUMP: Not good.

QUESTION: There was a ballistic missile test that many interpret as a violation of an agreement between the two countries; and a Russian plane buzzed a U.S. destroyer.

TRUMP: Not good.

QUESTION: I listened to you during the campaign ...

TRUMP: Excuse me, excuse me. When did it happen? It happened when, if you were Putin right now, you would say, "Hey, we're back to the old games with the United States; there's no way Trump can ever do a deal with us." Because the -- you have to understand. If I was just brutal on Russia right now, just brutal, people would say, you would say, "Oh, isn't that wonderful." But I know you well enough.

Then you would say, "Oh, he was too tough; he shouldn't have done that." Look, all of the...

(CROSSTALK)

QUESTION: I'm just trying to find out your orientation to those...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Wait a minute. Wait, wait. Excuse me just one second.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: All of those things that you mentioned are very recent, because probably Putin assumes that he's not going to be able to make a deal with me because it's politically not popular for me to make a deal. So Hillary Clinton tries a re-set. It failed. They all tried. But I'm different than those people.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: How are you interpreting those moves? And what do you intend to do about them? Have you given Rex Tillerson any advice or counsel on how to deal?

TRUMP: I have. I have. And I'm so beautifully represented. I'm so honored that the Senate approved him. He's going to be fantastic.

Yes, I think that I've already...

QUESTION: Is Putin testing you, do you believe, sir?

TRUMP: No, I don't think so. I think Putin probably assumes that he can't make a deal with me anymore because politically it would be unpopular for a politician to make a deal. I can't believe I'm saying I'm a politician, but I guess that's what I am now.

Because, look, it would be much easier for me to be tough on Russia, but then we're not going to make a deal.

Now, I don't know that we're going to make a deal. I don't know. We might. We might not. But it would be much easier for me to be so tough -- the tougher I am on Russia, the better. But you know what? I want to do the right thing for the American people. And to be honest, secondarily, I want to do the right thing for the world.

If Russia and the United States actually got together and got along -- and don't forget, we're a very powerful nuclear country and so are they. There's no up-side. We're a very powerful nuclear country and so are they. I have been briefed. And I can tell you one thing about a briefing that we're allowed to say because anybody that ever read the most basic book can say it, nuclear holocaust would be like no other.

They're a very powerful nuclear country and so are we. If we have a good relationship with Russia, believe me, that's a good thing, not a bad thing.

QUESTION: So when you say they're not good, do you mean that they are...

TRUMP: Who did I say is not good?

QUESTION: No, I read off the three things that have recently happened. Each one of them you said they're not good.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: No, it's not good, but they happened.

QUESTION: But do they damage the relationship? Do they undermine...

TRUMP: They all happened recently.

No...

(CROSSTALK)

QUESTION: ... this country's ability to work with Russia?

TRUMP: They all happened recently. And I understand what they're doing because they're doing the same thing.

Now, again, maybe I'm not going to be able to do a deal with Russia, but at least I will have tried. And if I don't, does anybody really think that Hillary Clinton would be tougher on Russia than Donald Trump? Does anybody in this room really believe that? OK?

But I tell you one thing, she tried to make a deal. She had the re-set. She gave all that valuable uranium away. She did other things. You know, they say I'm close to Russia. Hillary Clinton gave away 20 percent of the uranium in the United States. She's close to Russia.

QUESTION: Can we...

TRUMP: I gave -- you know what I gave to Russia? You know what I gave? Nothing.

QUESTION: Can we conclude there will be no response to these particular provocations?

TRUMP: I'm not going to tell you anything about what response I do. I don't talk about military response. I don't say I'm going into Mosul in four months. "We are going to attack Mosul in four months." Then three months later, "We are going to attack Mosul in one month." "Next week, we are going to attack Mosul."

In the meantime, Mosul is very, very difficult. Do you know why? Because I don't talk about military, and I don't talk about certain other things, you're going to be surprised to hear that. And by the way, my whole campaign, I'd say that. So I don't have to tell you. I don't want to be one of these guys that say, "Yes, here's what we're going to do." I don't have to do that. I don't have to tell you what I'm going to do in North Korea.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Wait a minute. I don't have to tell you what I'm going to do in North Korea. And I don't have to tell you what I'm going to do with Iran. You know why? Because they shouldn't know. And eventually, you guys are going to get tired of asking that question.

TRUMP: So when you ask me what am I going to do with a ship, the Russian ship as an example, I'm not going to tell you. But hopefully, I won't have to do anything, but I'm not going to tell you.

OK.

QUESTION: Could I just ask you -- thank you very much, Mr. President. The trouble...

TRUMP: Where are you from?

QUESTION: BBC.

TRUMP: Here's another beauty.

QUESTION: That's a good line. Impartial, free and fair.

TRUMP: Yeah. Sure.

QUESTION: Mr. President...

TRUMP: Just like CNN right?

QUESTION: On the travel ban -- we could banter back and forth. On the travel ban would you accept that that was a good example of the smooth running of government...

TRUMP: Yeah, I do. I do. Let me tell you about this government...

QUESTION: Were there any mistakes...

TRUMP: Wait. Wait. I know who you are. Just wait.

Let me tell you about the travel ban. We had a very smooth rollout of the travel ban. But we had a bad court. Got a bad decision. We had a court that's been overturned. Again, may be wrong. But I think it's 80 percent of the time, a lot.

We had a bad decision. We're going to keep going with that decision. We're going to put in a new executive order next week some time. But we had a bad decision.

That's the other thing that was wrong with the travel ban. You had Delta with a massive problem with their computer system at the airports. You had some people that were put out there, brought by very nice busses, and they were put out at various locations.

Despite that the only problem that we had is we had a bad court. We had a court that gave us what I consider to be, with great respect, a very bad decision. Very bad for the safety and security of our country. The rollout was perfect.

Now, what I wanted to do was do the exact same executive order, but said one thing. I said this to my people. Give them a one-month period of time. But Gen. Kelly, now Sec. Kelly, said if you do that, all these people will come in and (inaudible) the bad ones.

You do agree there are bad people out there, right? That not everybody that's like you. You have some bad people out there.

Kelly said you can't do that. And he was right. As soon as he said it I said wow, never thought of it. I said how about one week? He said no good. You got to do it immediately because if you do it immediately they don't have time to come in.

Now nobody ever reports that. But that's why we did it quickly.

Now, if I would've done it a month, everything would've been perfect. The problem is we would've wasted a lot of time, and maybe a lot of lives because a lot of bad people would've come into our country.

Now in the meantime, we're vetting very, very strongly. Very, very strongly. But we need help. And we need help by getting that executive order passed.

QUESTION: Just a brief follow-up. But if it's so urgent, why not introduce...

TRUMP: Yes? Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you. I was just hoping that we could get a yes or no answer on one of these questions involving Russia. Can you say whether you are aware that anyone who advised your campaign had contacts with Russia during the course of the election?

TRUMP: Well I told you, Gen. Flynn obviously was dealing. So that's one person. But he was dealing, as he should have been.

QUESTION: During the election?

TRUMP: No. Nobody that I know of. Nobody...

QUESTION: So you're not aware of any contact during the course..

TRUMP: Look, look, look...

QUESTION: ... of the election?

TRUMP: How many times do I have to answer this question?

QUESTION: Can you just say yes or no? TRUMP: Russia is a ruse.

I know you have to get up and ask a question. It's so important.

Russia is a ruse. I have nothing to do with Russia. Haven't made a phone call to Russia in years. Don't speak to people from Russia. Not that I wouldn't. I just have nobody to speak to.

I spoke to Putin twice. He called me on the election. I told you this. And he called me on the inauguration, a few days ago.

We had a very good talk, especially the second one, lasted for a pretty long period of time. I'm sure you probably get it because it was classified. So I'm sure everybody in this room perhaps has it. But we had a very, very good talk.

I have nothing to do with Russia. To the best of my knowledge no person that I deal with does.

Now, Manafort has totally denied it. He denied it. Now people knew that he was a consultant over in that part of the world for a while, but not for Russia. I think he represented Ukraine or people having to do with Ukraine, or people that -- whoever. But people knew that. Everybody knew that.

QUESTION: But in his capacity as your campaign manager, was he in touch with Russian officials during the election?

TRUMP: You know what? He said no. I could only tell you what he -- now he was replaced long before the election. You know that, right?

He was replaced long before the election. When all of this stuff started coming out, it came out during the election. But Paul Manafort, who's a good man also by the way, Paul Manfort was replaced long before the election took place. He was only there for a short period of time.

QUESTION: Mr. President...

TRUMP: How much longer should we stay here, folks?

QUESTION: Mr. President...

TRUMP: Five more minutes. Is that OK? Five?

QUESTION: Mr. President, on national...

TRUMP: Wait. Let's see. Who's -- I want to find a friendly reporter.

QUESTION: Mr....

TRUMP: Are you a friendly reporter? Watch how friendly he is. Wait. Wait. Watch how friendly he is. Go ahead.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)...

TRUMP: Go ahead.

QUESTION: So first of all, my name is (Inaudible) from (Inaudible) Magazine. I (inaudible). I haven't seen anybody in my community, including yourself or any of the -- anyone on your staff of being (OFF-MIKE).

Because (OFF-MIKE). However, what we've already heard about and what we (OFF-MIKE) is (OFF-MIKE) so you're general forecast (ph) like 48 (OFF-MIKE). There are people who are everything (ph) happens through their packs (ph) is one of the (OFF-MIKE)...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP:...he said he was gonna ask a very simple, easy question. And it's not, its not, not -- not a simple question, not a fair question. OK sit down, I understand the rest of your question.

So here's the story, folks. Number one, I am the least anti- Semitic person that you've ever seen in your entire life. Number two, racism, the least racist person. In fact, we did very well relative to other people running as a Republican -- quiet, quiet, quiet.

See, he lied about -- he was gonna get up and ask a very straight, simple question, so you know, welcome to the world of the media. But let me just tell you something, that I hate the charge, I find it repulsive.

I hate even the question because people that know me and you heard the prime minister, you heard Ben Netanyahu (ph) yesterday, did you hear him, Bibi? He said, I've known Donald Trump for a long time and then he said, forget it.

So you should take that instead of having to get up and ask a very insulting question like that.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you, I'm Lisa (ph) from the...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: See, it just shows you about the press, but that's the way the press is.

QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. Lisa Dejardown (ph) from the PBS News Hour. On national security and immigration, can you give us more details on the executive order you plan for next week? Even its broad outlines?

TRUMP: Yeah.

QUESTION: Will it be focused on specific...

TRUMP: It's a very fair question.

QUESTION: ...countries? And in addition, on the DACA program for immigration.

TRUMP: Right.

QUESTION: What is your plan, do you plan to continue that program or to end it?

TRUMP: We're gonna show great heart, DACA is a very, very difficult subject for me, I will tell you. To me, it's one of the most difficult subjects I have because you have these incredible kids.

In many cases, not in all cases. And some of the cases, having DACA and they're gang members and they're drug dealers, too. But you have some absolutely, incredible kids, I would say mostly. They were brought here in such a way -- it's a very -- it's a very, very tough subject.

We're gonna deal with DACA with heart. I have to deal with a lot of politicians, don't forget and I have to convince them that what I'm saying is -- is right. And I appreciate your understanding on that.

But the DACA situation is a very, very -- it's a very difficult thing for me because you know, I love these kids, I love kids, I have kids and grandkids. And I find it very, very hard doing what the law says exactly to do and you know, the law is rough.

I'm not talking about new laws, I'm talking the existing law, is very rough, it's very, very rough. As far as the new order, the new order is going to be very much tailored to the what I consider to be a very bad decision.

But we can tailor the order to that decision and get just about everything, in some ways, more. But we're tailoring it now to the decision, we have some of the best lawyers in the country working on it.

And the new executive order, is being tailored to the decision we got down from the court. OK?

QUESTION: Mr. President...

(CROSSTALK) QUESTION: ...reopening of the White House Visitors Office?

TRUMP: Yes.

QUESTION: And she does a lot of great work for the country as well (ph). Can you talk a little bit about what's first for (ph) Melania Trump does for the country and (inaudible) so opening White House Visitors Office, what does that mean...

TRUMP: Now, that's what I call a nice question. That is very -- who are you with?

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

TRUMP: Good, I'm gonna start watching, all right? Thank you very much. Melania's terrific, she was here last night, we had dinner with Senator Rubio and his wife who is by the way, lovely.

And we had a really good discussion about Cuba because we have very similar views on Cuba. And Cuba was very good to me in the Florida election, as you know the Cuban Americans. And I think that Melania's gonna be outstanding, that's right, she just opened up the visitors center, in other words, touring of the White House.

She, like others that she's working with, feel very, very strongly about women's issue, women's difficulties. Very, very strongly, she's a very, very strong advocate. I think she's a great representative for this country.

And a funny thing happens, because she gets -- she gets so unfairly -- Melania, the things they say. I've known her for a long time, she was a very successful person, she was a very successful model. She did really well.

She would go home at night and didn't even want to go out with people. She was a very private person. She was always the highest quality that you'll ever find. And the things they say -- I've known her for a long time -- the things they say are so unfair. And actually, she's been apologized to, as you know, by various media because they said things that were lies.

I'll just tell you this. I think she's going to be a fantastic first lady. She's going to be a tremendous representative of women and of the people. And helping her and working her will be Ivanka, who is a fabulous person and a fabulous, fabulous woman. And they're not doing this for money.

They're not doing this for pay, they're doing this because they feel it; both of them. And Melania goes back and forth and after Barron finishes school -- because it's hard to take a child out of school with a few months left -- she and Barron will be moving over to the White House. OK, thank you, that's a very nice question.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Go ahead. QUESTION: Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: Yes, oh, this is going to be a bad question, but that's OK.

QUESTION: It doesn't(ph) have(ph) to be a bad question.

TRUMP: Good, because I enjoy watching you on television. Go ahead.

QUESTION: Well, thank you so much. Mr. President, I need to find out from you, you said something as it relates to inner cities. That was one of your platforms during your campaign. Now you're --

TRUMP: Fix the inner cities.

QUESTION: -- president. Fixing the inner cities.

TRUMP: Yep.

QUESTION: What will be that fix and your urban agenda as well as your HBCU Executive Order that's coming out this afternoon? See, it wasn't bad, was it?

TRUMP: That was very professional and very good.

QUESTION: I'm very professional.

TRUMP: We'll be announcing the order in a little while and I'd rather let the order speak for itself. But it could be something that I think that will be very good for everybody concerned. But we'll talk to you about that after we do the announcement. As far as the inner cities, as you know, I was very strong on the inner cities during the campaign.

I think it's probably what got me a much higher percentage of the African American vote than a lot of people thought I was going to get. We did, you know, much higher than people thought I was going to get. And I was honored by that, including the Hispanic vote, which was also much higher.

And by the way, if I might add, including the women's vote, which was much higher than people thought I was going to get. So, we are going to be working very hard on the inner cities, having to do with education, having to do with crime. We're going to try and fix as quickly as possible -- you know, it takes a long time.

It's taken more a hundred years and more for some of these places to evolve and they evolved, many of them, very badly. But we're going to be working very hard on health and healthcare, very, very hard on education, and also we're going to be working in a stringent way, in a very good way, on crime.

You go to some of these inner city places and it's so sad when you look at the crime. You have people -- and I've seen this, and I've sort of witnessed it -- in fact, in two cases I have actually witnessed it. They lock themselves into apartments, petrified to even leave, in the middle of the day.

They're living in hell. We can't let that happen. So, we're going to be very, very strong. That's a great question and -- and it's a -- it's a very difficult situation because it's been many, many years. It's been festering for many, many years. But we have places in this country that we have to fix.

We have to help African American people that, for the most part, are stuck there. Hispanic American people. We have Hispanic American people that are in the inner cities and their living in hell. I mean, you look at the numbers in Chicago. There are two Chicagos, as you know.

There's one Chicago that's incredible, luxurious and all -- and safe. There's another Chicago that's worse than almost any of the places in the Middle East that we talk, and that you talk about, every night on the newscasts. So, we're going to do a lot of work on the inner cities.

I have great people lined up to help with the inner cities. OK?

QUESTION: Well, when you say the inner cities, are you going -- are you going to include the CBC, Mr. President, in your conversations with your -- your urban agenda, your inner city agenda, as well as --

TRUMP: Am I going to include who?

QUESTION: Are you going to include the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional --

TRUMP: Well, I would. I tell you what, do you want to set up the meeting?

QUESTION: -- Hispanic Caucus --

TRUMP: Do you want to set up the meeting?

QUESTION: No -- no -- no. I'm not --

TRUMP: Are they friends of yours?

QUESTION: I'm just a reporter.

TRUMP: Well, then(ph) set up the meeting.

QUESTION: I know some of them, but I'm sure they're watching right now.

TRUMP: Let's go set up a meeting. I would love to meet with the Black Caucus. I think it's great, the Congressional Black Caucus. I think it's great. I actually thought I had a meeting with Congressman Cummings and he was all excited. And then he said, well, I can't move, it might be bad for me politically. I can't have that meeting.

I was all set to have the meeting. You know, we called him and called him. And he was all set. I spoke to him on the phone, very nice guy.

QUESTION: I hear he wanted that meeting with you as well.

TRUMP: He wanted it, but we called, called, called and can't make a meeting with him. Every day I walk and say I would like to meet with him because I do want to solve the problem. But he probably was told by Schumer or somebody like that, some other lightweight. He was probably told - he was probably told "don't meet with Trump. It's bad politics."

And that's part of the problem in this country. OK, one more.

QUESTION: (inaudible)

TRUMP: No, no, one question. Two we can't handle. This room can't handle two. Go ahead, give me the better of your two.

QUESTION: (inaudible) ...not about your personality or your beliefs, talking about (inaudible), some of it by supporters in your name. What do you...

TRUMP: ...And some of it - can I be honest with you? And this has to do with racism and horrible things that are put up. Some of it written by our opponents. You do know that. Do you understand that? You don't think anybody would do a thing like that. Some of the signs you'll see are not put up by the people that love or like Donald Trump, they're put up by the other side and you think it's like playing it straight?

No. But you have some of those signs and some of that anger is caused by the other side. They'll do signs and they'll do drawings that are inappropriate. It won't be my people. It will be the people on the other side to anger people like you. OK.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Go ahead, go ahead.

QUESTION: You're the president now. What are you going to do about it?

TRUMP: Who is that? Where is that?

QUESTION: What are you going to do about - what are you going to do about (inaudible).

TRUMP: Oh, I'm working on it. I'm working on it very - no, no, look. Hey, just so you understand, we had a totally divided country for eight years and long before that. In all fairness to President Obama, long before President Obama we have had a very divided - I didn't come along and divide this country. This country was seriously divided before I got here.

We're going to work on it very hard. One of the questions I was asked, I thought it was a very good question was about the inner cities. I mean, that's part of it. But we're going to work on education, we're going to work on - you know, we're going to stop - we're going to try and stop the crime. We have great law enforcement officials, we're going to try and stop crime.

We're not going to try and stop, we're going to stop crime. But it's very important to me - but this isn't Donald Trump that divided a nation. We went eight years with President Obama and we went many years before President Obama. We lived in a divided nation. And I am going to try - I will do everything within my power to fix that. I want to thank everybody very much.

It's a great honor to be with you. Thank you. Thank you very much, thanks.Story highlights "Everybody's aware of the problem in New Hampshire," Miller said.

But neither Trump nor the losing GOP senator asked for a recount

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump's senior policy adviser on Sunday repeated Trump's unsubstantiated claims that people were bused from Massachusetts to New Hampshire to vote illegally in the swing state during the 2016 election.

But he provided no evidence to support that claim or other claims of widespread voter fraud.

In a contentious interview with ABC's George Stephanopoulos on "This Week," White House policy director Stephen Miller repeated Trump's claim last week that he would have won New Hampshire were it not for "thousands" of people being bused there.

"Go to New Hampshire. Talk to anybody who's worked in politics there for a long time. Everybody's aware of the problem in New Hampshire," Miller said.

JUST WATCHED McConnell disagrees with Trump fraud claim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McConnell disagrees with Trump fraud claim 01:20

Stephanopoulos pressed Miller for evidence to support Trump's claim, but when none was given, said: "Just for the record, you have provided absolutely no evidence."

Read MoreStory highlights "Gov. Beshear is an experienced job-creator and a uniquely credible voice," Pelosi said

As governor, Beshear lowered Kentucky's uninsured rate from more than 20% to 7.5%

(CNN) Former Kentucky Gov. Steven Beshear will make the case for Obamacare during the Democratic response to President Donald Trump's first joint address to Congress on Tuesday.

Beshear is expected to address the need for Trump to create more jobs and improve education, but much of his speech will challenge the Republican push to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.

"American families desperately need our president to put his full attention on creating opportunity and good-paying jobs and preserving their right to affordable health care and a quality education," Beshear said in a statement with the House and Senate Democratic leadership. "Real leaders don't spread derision and division -- they build partnerships and offer solutions instead of ideology and blame."

Kentucky received national attention under Beshear's leadership for the state's ability to implement the Affordable Care Act. As governor, Beshear lowered Kentucky's uninsured rate from more than 20% to 7.5%, one of the country's largest improvements.

"Under Governor Beshear's leadership, Kentucky became one of the great success stories of the Affordable Care Act in delivering quality, affordable health coverage for all," House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said in the statement. "Governor Beshear is an experienced job-creator and a uniquely credible voice on the devastating consequences of Republicans' plans to Make America Sick Again for families across America."

Read More(CNN) Support for Obamacare is at an all-time high, according to two surveys released this week as Republican leaders continue to press the case for repeal amid fierce resistance at many town halls.

The latest Health Tracking Poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 48% of Americans view the law favorably, compared to 42% who have an unfavorable view. This is the highest level of favorability measured in more than 60 Kaiser Health Tracking Polls conducted since 2010.

The boost comes largely from independents, half of whom view Obamacare favorably compared to 39% who don't. Nearly three-quarters of Democrats continue to view it favorably, while about the same share of Republicans have an unfavorable view.

Also, a survey from the Pew Research Center found 54% of Americans approve of the Affordable Care Act -- the highest level ever recorded by Pew -- while 43% disapprove. That's up from an even split (48%-47%) in a Pew survey from December, suggesting support for the law may be galvanized by the ongoing public fight over its future.

Still, opinions on Obamacare remain divided. Predictably, Republicans are most likely to say they disapprove (89%) while Democrats are most likely to express approval (85%). But slightly more independents say they approve (53%) than disapprove (45%) -- up about 10 points from December.

Among those polled by Kaiser, the public remains divided along partisan lines on whether Congress should repeal the law. Some 47% said lawmakers should dismantle it, while 48% say it should not.

The Pew survey results also found that even among those who disapprove of the law, 25% want GOP leaders to "make modifications" while just 17% want to "get rid of the law entirely."

And while most Republicans disapprove of the law (89% to 10%), they are also divided over what to do about it -- 42% favor modifications while 44% favor axing it.

The Kaiser survey also asked respondents about their views on Medicaid, which was broadened under Obamacare to cover low-income adults. Some 31 states -- including 16 led by Republicans governors -- have accepted Medicaid expansion.

Some 84% of those polled say it is either "very" or "somewhat" important for any replacement plan to ensure that states that received federal funds to expand Medicaid continue to receive those funds. This includes majorities of Democrats (95%), independents (84%) and Republicans (69%).

Two-thirds of respondents say they don't support turning Medicaid into a grant program, where the federal government would send a fixed amount of funding to the states but give them more control over who and what is covered. They prefer the status quo, they said.

During Congress' latest recess, Republican lawmakers have held a series of high-profile town halls that attendees have flooded to express their concern over plans for the Affordable Care Act's repeal.

The increasingly blunt outcry from Democrats has already rattled congressional Republicans and could extinguish hope for a quick and politically tidy repeal of Obamacare. To urge calm, some Republicans have already made promises that patients won't lose coverage during a transition period away from Obamacare, while Trump himself has promised "insurance for everybody."

The Kaiser poll was conducted from February 13-19 by telephone of 1,160 adults, with a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points among all adults.

The Pew Research Center survey sampled 1,503 American adults between February 7-12. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9 points for all adults; plus or minus 4.7 points for Republicans; and plus or minus 4.0 points for Democrats."We do not agree on the different measures that recently were stated by the government of the United States (that) affect Mexico," Osorio Chong said.

Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson were in Mexico to try to smooth the relationship and address some of the differences that have emerged between the United States and its neighbor.

Their visit to Mexico City follows months of charged rhetoric from President Donald Trump and US immigration measures announced this week that have dramatic implications for the country, including potentially sending significantly more migrants back over the southern border.

"We have expressed our concern about the increase of deportations," Osorio Chong said of meetings he and other Mexican officials had Thursday with Kelly and Tillerson.

Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray, speaking ahead of Osorio Chong, was also quick to raise some of these tensions, telling reporters that there was a perception in Mexico that the Trump administration was pursuing "policies that might be hurtful for Mexicans."

Pointing to the issue of illegal migration, he said, "Our concern, to respect the rights of Mexicans living in the United States more, specifically the human rights."

He added that it would be "a long way to go" to be in agreement with the United States and that "facts" were needed in order to "overcome the negative feelings that are prevailing now."

Tillerson, for his part, noted that "two sovereign countries from time to time will have differences."

Standing with Videgaray, however, he focused more on shared concerns in his public comments.

"We listened closely and carefully to each other as we respectfully and patiently raised our respective concerns," he said.

"There's no mistaking that the rule of law matters on both sides of our border," Tillerson said, pledging to work with Mexico to stem the flow of cash and weapons from the US.

But his message in meetings, according to a senior administration official speaking after the top US diplomat's arrival in Mexico Wednesday night, was a little more forceful.

"Tillerson will make, he will acknowledge this, that if we are gonna to have a relationship that works, on border that works, it goes both ways," the official said.

Ahead of their remarks, President Donald Trump said Thursday that he told Tillerson the visit to Mexico was "going to be a tough trip."

Trump, speaking to manufacturers at the White House, said the trip would be difficult "because we have to be treated fairly by Mexico."

As Tillerson arrived Wednesday, Videgaray said publicly that he wanted to "make it clear, in the most emphatic way, that the Mexican government and the people of Mexico do not have to accept measures unilaterally imposed on a government by another government."

US administration officials said Kelly and Tillerson's trip was meant to allow the new Cabinet secretaries to establish relationships and coordinate on bilateral issues that range from counterterrorism, border security and trade amounting to $1.5 billion a day.

They also met with President Enrique Peña Nieto and Mexican military officials.

JUST WATCHED Kelly, Tillerson visit Mexico amid strained relations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kelly, Tillerson visit Mexico amid strained relations 04:12

But the top US officials make their Mexican debut under a cloud, as Trump has introduced policies meant to back up campaign rhetoric that painted Mexico and Mexicans as a security threat and economic drain on the US.

On Tuesday, the Trump administration issued guidance that broadens the scope of deportations from a previous focus on criminals to apply to every undocumented immigrant in the US. It also enables state and local law enforcement to act as immigration officers.

Another change to asylum procedures would make it easier for immigration officers to send non-Mexican migrants to Mexico if they came through the country on their way to the US. The change could potentially send tens of thousands of Central Americans fleeing violence, gangs and drug cartels back into Mexico.

A Mexican official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive diplomatic matters ahead of Thursday's meeting, told CNN that Kelly and Tillerson would hear from Pena Nieto, Videgaray and other officials that Mexico would not take deportees who are not Mexican nationals. A second official pointed out that no bilateral agreement requires Mexico to take these immigrants and that Mexico isn't bound by any US presidential order. There is nothing the US can't do to force the matter, this official said.

And Mexico has some leverage, the second official said. The country has been stopping Central American migrants before they reach the US for more than two years, the official said, adding that if Trump doesn't stop his "orders," it will make it more difficult for Mexico to continue this cooperation.

Trump may be trying to figure out his own ways to apply pressure to get Mexico to pay. He has suggested putting a 20% tariff on Mexican goods entering the US and his campaign has floated the idea of seizing remittances from Mexicans in the US sending money home.

The President has also ordered Cabinet agencies to inform him of the total direct and indirect aid the US gives Mexico, a move that some see as an attempt to amass some leverage in the debate over the border wall that Trump insists will be built and that Mexico will pay for. Mexican officials have repeatedly said they will do no such thing.

Under the Merida Initiative, the State Dept has given Mexico $2.6 billion since 2008. That's to strengthen rule of law, counter narco-trafficking, support judicial reform and police professionalization. It doesn't include aid from other State Department programs. Mexico also gets funding from the departments of Defense, Energy, Labor, Health and Human Services, Interior, the Peace Corps, the US Agency for International Development and DHS.

Kelly distributed an implementation memo on February 21 asking his staff to calculate how much direct and indirect aid DHS gives Mexico. That process is still underway.(CNN) President Donald Trump has expressed concern that the United States has "fallen behind" in its nuclear weapons capacity and that he would like to restore its supremacy.

In an interview with the Reuters news agency, Trump said he would prefer a world free of nuclear weapons but otherwise the United States should be "at the top of the pack."

The remarks came as Trump prepares to address the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) on Friday. Trump takes top billing at the conference a day after his key advisers, chief strategist Steve Bannon and chief of staff Reince Priebus, appeared on the CPAC stage to discuss Trump's agenda and rail against the media.

'Top of the pack'

In the Reuters interview, conducted in the Oval Office, Trump said the US needed to revive its nuclear arsenal.

"I am the first one that would like to see ... nobody have nukes, but we're never going to fall behind any country even if it's a friendly country, we're never going to fall behind on nuclear power," he told Reuters.

JUST WATCHED Is Russia's honeymoon with Trump over? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is Russia's honeymoon with Trump over? 02:24

"It would be wonderful, a dream would be that no country would have nukes, but if countries are going to have nukes, we're going to be at the top of the pack."

The comments were his first on the US nuclear arsenal since taking office last month. In December -- hours after Russian President Vladimir Putin pledged to enhance his country's nuclear forces --Trump tweeted that the United States " must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes."

Asked by Reuters if he would raise Russia's apparent breach of an arms control treaty with Putin, Trump replied: "I don't even know if they are discussing meetings right now, but if I meet, if and when we meet, I would bring it up."

Trump also dismissed the New START agreement, a key US-Russia nuclear disarmament treaty , as "a one-sided deal." The treaty came up in a phone conversation between Trump and Putin last month.

Accuses China of currency manipulation

JUST WATCHED President Donald Trump's pivot on Asia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President Donald Trump's pivot on Asia 03:00

"I think they could solve the problem very easily, if they want to," he said of China.

Questioned about his support for the European Union, Trump said he was "totally in favor of it," adding: "I think it's wonderful if they are happy. If they are happy, I am in favor of it."

Senior Trump administration figures have been in Europe in recent days seeking to reassure longstanding US allies amid concerns over apparently contradictory messages coming from the White House.

On the 'two-state solution'

Asked if he was backing away from a two-state solution for Israel and the Palestinians, Trump replied: "I like a two-state solution but I ultimately like what the both parties like. I thought that was so plain. Some people covered it accurately, other people didn't. Very simple."

Speaking to reporters last week alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Trump appeared to dump five decades of US policy on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , saying he wouldn't insist on a two-state solution and would simply "like the one that both parties like."

Moving to issues closer to home, Trump indicated that he might back the introduction of a tax on imports from Mexico to help pay for his border wall, saying, "I certainly support a form of tax on the border because everyone else does."

He told Reuters that such a tax would affect other countries and companies more than the consumer.Story highlights "I do believe you will see greater enforcement of it," Spicer said

He was careful to distinguish between use of medical and recreational marijuana

Washington (CNN) The White House said Thursday it expects law enforcement agents to enforce federal marijuana laws when they come into conflict with states where recreational use of the drug is permitted.

"I do believe you will see greater enforcement of it," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said regarding federal drug laws, which still list marijuana as an illegal substance.

That's a reversal from the Obama administration's stance, which laid out in an official memo that the federal government wouldn't interfere in states where nonmedical use of marijuana is allowed.

That guidance was issued after two states -- Colorado and Washington -- voted to legalize recreational use of marijuana. Obama said in the immediate aftermath of those votes that the federal government had "bigger fish to fry" than cracking down on marijuana use in states where it's considered legal.

Most drug enforcement operations are carried out by state and local authorities, with little involvement by the federal government. Enforcing marijuana laws has been considered a lower priority for federal drug agents, who have remained focused on curbing narcotics trafficking and combating a nationwide epidemic of opioid abuse.

Read MorePensacola, Florida (CNN) Republican lawmakers have suffered now through two weeks now of rowdy town hall meetings and endless protests from a surprisingly strong uprising on the left.

The passion and breadth of the anger has had many comparing this to the tea party uprising of eight years ago, a momentous shift in politics that ushered Republican control of the House.

After having watched these meetings across the country, a few trends have popped up: the election never ended, President Donald Trump is a lightning rod for Republicans and more.

Here are the five takeaways after two weeks:

People are afraid of losing their health care

The town hall battles began with the fight over Obamacare and some of the most deeply personal exchanges have come from people who are worried changes to the Affordable Care Act will cut their health care coverage.

Kati McFarland, a 25-year-old University of Arkansas student, pressed Sen. Tom Cotton continuously about what he was going to do about her rare degenerative disease.

"Will you commit today to replacements in the same way that you committed to the repeal?" McFarland asked the Arkansas Republican. But as Cotton attempted to say it was time for another question, the crowd shouted over him, pushing him back to her question with a simple chant: "Yes or no!"

After peppering Cotton with more tough questions, she ended with: "Before they ask their (questions), I would like an answer to mine."

At other times, when it has appeared the lawmakers are ducking the question -- protesters have turned the Affordable Care Act into a chant, screaming "ACA! ACA!"

Sen. Bill Cassidy, a Louisiana Republican and medical doctor, was shouted down repeatedly when he attempted to explain his position.

"Would you rather hear this man yell, or me answer a question?" asked Cassidy, who has co-authored a proposal that would allow states to keep Obamacare. A woman in the crowd fired back "Hear him yell!"

The election isn't over

Trump is the President but the issues raised during the campaign are far from over.

Toby Smith, 7, pressed Cotton on Trump's words on immigrants as well as his proposal to make certain budget cuts.

"Donald Trump makes Mexicans not important to people who are in Arkansas who like Mexicans, like me, my grandma," Smith said.

"And he is deleting all the parks and PBS Kids just to make a wall ... and he shouldn't do that," said Toby, voicing fears of some that the Trump administration will cut financial support to the National Park Service and public television.

The continuing investigation of Russian interference in the US elections -- and their talks with Trump campaign officials -- are constantly brought up as well.

"Will you hold Russia accountable for hacking, and how?" yelled one person at Rep. Leonard Lance's town hall Wednesday night in New Jersey. This spurred Lance to say he would consider supporting stronger sanctions on Russia.

Rep. Tom Reed, who along with all other Republicans on the House Ways and Means Committee last week turned away a Democratic effort to get the committee chairman to use his legal authority to obtain the returns, explained his position to voters.

"The reason why we voted against that is because if the government goes on an attack on one individual, that is a very dangerous level of power," Reed said. "We make sure the government is held in check."

Reed's answers were met with loud boos, and chants of "Do your job!" "What are you covering up?" and "Russia! Russia! Russia!"

Trump galvanizes the opposition

It's hard to see any of these town hall protests happening if any other Republican other than Trump was in the White House.

Merlee Harison said she simply would not have been out if Trump was not in office, as she stood in line with close to 2,000 others waiting to get into Cotton's town hall.

But Harison also said her anger extended past Trump to include Cotton, because she views Trump as a "fog screen" for Republicans trying to push their priorities.

"I think most people understand Trump -- know what he is, know what he isn't. I'm here because I'm concerned about the Republicans who now think they have a mandate to do whatever they pleased," said Harison, 80, of Fayetteville, Arkansas. "You don't see this kind of thing when everybody is happy."

Cotton did not directly say Wednesday evening whether he blamed Trump for the surprising turnout, but he laughed when asked if the town would be as crowded if Marco Rubio had won the White House.

"That's fine, they can be angry with me, happy with me, I still serve them no matter what they feel about what I'm doing. I'm here to try to answer the questions as best I can and also to hear from them, so I'm looking forward to this evening and hope they are, as well," Cotton told CNN.

For now, Trump is to the left what Obama was to the right eight years ago. It's even led some liberals to say they now empathize with tea partiers.

Sanjay Rajput, a Democrat who attended Virginia Rep. Dave Brat's town hall Tuesday, agreed with the notion that the highly charged environment at many town halls now resembles the tea party influence over town halls six years ago, saying, "if it worked for them, it should work for us."

"If I could, I'd go up to a tea party person right now and apologize for accusing them of being paid because that's what I did," he added. "Nobody's paying me. I'm standing up for what I believe."

Lawmakers who grin and bear it do best

Some Republicans -- including Trump -- have reacted to the sometimes-rowdy town hall crowds by suggesting they are paid protesters.

The so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal activists. Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 21, 2017

The protesters are returning fire, by introducing themselves to members as local residents or bringing signs with their zip codes.

The Republicans who seem to perform the best are those who host in-person town halls and face questions, even if from an angry crowd, rather than ducking constituents while home during the congressional recess. Rep. Mark Sanford, a conservative from South Carolina, even coordinated his recent town hall with protesters there.

Lance, the moderate New Jersey Republican, said on CNN's "New Day" he was happy 1,300 people showed up and that he was holding another town hall Saturday.

Sen. Chuck Grassley, a veteran Iowa lawmaker and Republican stalwart, said: "I learned that we've got issues that people feel very strongly about and we have to try to deal with them."

Contrast that against the Republicans who refused to have town halls.

Protesters crashed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's fundraiser for a Kentucky business group Tuesday. A mock, empty seat town hall targeting House Speaker Paul Ryan was held in Wisconsin because he declined to hold any town halls this break. And protesters have been trying to crash other Republican fundraisers -- an Ohio group almost made it into one held by Sen. Rob Portman Wednesday night.

The Republicans who have gone halfway, attempting to control the fury, have met with similar backlash. Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst ducked out the back of her public meeting after attempting to keep questions limited to selected veterans in the crowd. Rep. Jim Jordan, an Ohio Republican, attempted to stick to his President's Day plans Monday, but a crowd of roughly 200 protesters showed up and forced him to take their questions for 45 minutes.

How long will the anger last?

After only one month in to the new administration, it would be easy to dismiss the protests as leftover angst from the election -- and that anger clearly fuels much of it. But the protests have grown to look more like a Democratic tea party and less like the second version of Occupy Wall Street, which flared up but fizzled without any sustained fuel.

New actions from the White House, such as repealing Obama administration protections for transgender students, will only keep the left engaged.

While the people who attend town halls may be locals, there are still professional organizers and scores of out-of-work Democratic staffers looking to strike back at Trump and Republicans. Leaders from the Indivisible group are former congressional staffers who have been advising local Indivisible chapters on how to organize and then confront their lawmakers.

The founder of Ozark Indivisible, Caitlynn Moses, started with the group's guidebook a little over a month ago, and by Wednesday night she had led 2,000 people to confront Cotton. Cotton even arranged to meet in person with Moses before the event, then invited her on stage to ask the first question.

The big caveat is whether any of the energy will carry into the 2018 elections the same way it did for tea partiers and Republicans in 2010. This past week has been one recess, and then lawmakers head back to the Capitol, away from protesters. Tea party activists had the entire summer after House Democrats passed Obamacare to flood their town halls.

The first explosive town hall caught Rep. Jason Chaffetz offguard in deep-red Utah, two weeks ago, and put Republicans on guard heading into this week.

It's not clear how hot the fire will burn when the lawmakers are back in Washington.Story highlights The debate will be moderated by CNN's Dana Bash and Chris Cuomo

Candidates will discuss the future of the Democratic Party

Washington (CNN) Just days before the Democratic National Committee elects its new leader, candidates for the job will hash out their visions for the party at CNN's "Debate Night: Democratic Leadership Debate" on Wednesday.

The debate, moderated by CNN Chief Political Correspondent Dana Bash and "New Day" anchor Chris Cuomo, will air at 10 p.m. ET from the CNN Center in Atlanta. The candidates will lay out strategies for the 2018 midterm elections, rebuilding the Democratic Party and the DNC's role under the Trump administration.

CNN has not yet announced which candidates will be attending.

To receive an invitation to the debate, a person must be recognized by the DNC as a candidate for chair as outlined by its 2016 memo and must have appeared in at least three of the four DNC's Future Forums held in Phoenix, Arizona; Houston, Texas; Detroit, Michigan; and Baltimore, Maryland.

The event will air live on CNN, CNN en Español, CNN International, CNNgo, Westwood One Radio Network and on CNN Channel 116 on Sirius XM.

Read MorePresident Trump is battling leaks, signing new executive actions and speaking at CPAC. We are covering his fifth week in office here.This story has been updated with additional material and sourcing

Kiev, Ukraine (CNN) The setting was a Manhattan restaurant, and after 25 minutes what allegedly emerged was a pro-Russian peace plan for Ukraine that its author believes may have ended up in the White House.

In a CNN interview, Ukrainian lawmaker Andrii Artemenko said he discussed his left-field proposal for Ukraine in January with US President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, who offered to deliver the plan to the Trump administration.

The exact details of the plan are unclear, yet reports have suggested it revolves around leasing Crimea -- annexed by Russia from Ukraine in 2014 -- to Moscow for 50 to 100 years. In exchange, Russia would withdraw its troops from the separatist regions in Ukraine's war-torn east.

Artemenko declined to discuss the plan's details, yet hinted that a lease might be part of the idea.

The lawmaker says Cohen, who has long advised Trump, wanted to take the plan to Michael Flynn, Trump's former national security adviser.

Any suggestion that the White House might consider a plan that formalizes Russia's control of Crimea would cause consternation in Kiev and among its allies in Europe. The White House has flatly denied any knowledge of the proposal.

JUST WATCHED Explaining the conflict in Ukraine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Explaining the conflict in Ukraine 01:40

In his interview with CNN, Artemenko shines a light on how a key Trump associate was allegedly prepared to push a controversial peace plan that might benefit Russia at a time when questions were being raised about the Trump's ties to that country.

The Ukrainian member of parliament told CNN he met Cohen through a mutual acquaintance, businessman Felix Sater, and that the three had dinner in a Manhattan hotel in January.

Cohen told CNN in a text message that although he had dinner with Artemenko, they never discussed peace in Ukraine. Other media organizations reported that he offered them a different account. The White House has denied that Cohen delivered any peace plan to Flynn.

Russia and Ukraine have since rejected the plan, and Artemenko has now become the subject of investigation for treason for suggesting it to Cohen.

In a hurried interview in a Kiev hotel, Artemenko said Cohen told him that Flynn -- who resigned in mid-February due to a controversy over calls with the Russian ambassador to the US -- was his best connection at the White House.

"Michael Flynn is the best person, the best of my connections in the Trump administration, who if he likes [it], it's going to [get] huge support, huge support," Cohen said, according to Artemenko.

That account was supported by Sater, who said the Ukraine deal was discussed at the January meeting attended by Cohen, Artemenko and himself. "I am always sympathetic and enthusiastic about peace," he told CNN via email. "Because it was a war situation, Mr. Cohen thought it was probably a National Security Advisor Flynn issue," he said.

Flynn did not respond to CNN's request for comment on this story.

JUST WATCHED Ukraine may be Trump's first test with Putin Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ukraine may be Trump's first test with Putin 02:25

Artemenko knew the proposal would be controversial as it undercuts both the US and Ukrainian diplomatic corps, and he says he knows it angered Kiev, who will have seen it as a pro-Russian proposal.

"That's why I feel pressure, and for sure today I can see people accusing me, and I see the prosecutor of Ukraine is trying to do something, to open a new case, to do an investigation about me," he told CNN.

He said of the January meeting that Sater invited Cohen to "a dinner in the hotel in Manhattan, and we probably spoke around 20-25 minutes, where I presented my intentions, my peace plan for the Ukraine, how we can stop the war, how we can stop the killing."

Artemenko said he had never dreamed that his proposal would be seen by the White House, but he claims Cohen said the plan had "great potential" and wanted to deliver it to the Trump administration.

"It was Michael Cohen's idea," he said. "He [Cohen] mentioned his name first in my meetings. And he said 'listen, Michael Flynn' -- from his personal opinion -- 'is most powerful man who can really support this idea, who can support, who can help you, who can provide this information to President Trump.'"

Flynn resigned 24 days into the job after misleading administration officials over his communications with the Russian ambassador to the US before Trump took office. Flynn made several calls to the ambassador in December, including some on the same day that the outgoing Obama administration placed fresh sanctions on Russia over alleged election meddling.

The Justice Department also warned the Trump administration in January that Flynn could be subject to Russian blackmail , a person familiar with the matter told CNN last month.

In a text message to CNN, Cohen denied delivering any documents to Flynn, and disputed Artemenko's recollection of their January conversation.

"If this continued fake news narrative wasn't so ridiculous, I would be angered. Despite the multitude of statements issued denying any nexus between Presidents Trump and [Russian President Vladimir Putin], the main stream media just keeps on trying to perpetuate this lie.

"I acknowledge that the brief meeting took place, but emphatically deny discussing this topic or delivering any documents to the White House and/or General Flynn; something I stated to the New York Times."

According to the Times, Cohen said he left a sealed envelope with the proposed peace plan in Flynn's office. Later, Cohen denied delivering a peace plan to Flynn.

Artemenko insists, however, that it was Cohen's idea to show the peace proposal to the senior White House official. "It was his idea, absolutely his idea," he said.

After Russia seized the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in 2014, it sent military help to separatists in the country's east, where violent conflict over disputed territory drags on to this day.

Kiev has refused to discuss the official transfer of the peninsula to Russia, and dismissed Artemenko's plan as a result.

Moscow considers the peninsula already its territory, after its residents -- under a substantial Russian military presence -- voted in a 2014 referendum to join the Russian Federation.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov said Russia refuses to discuss the lease of a region it already controls: "How can Russia rent its own region? This question itself is absurd."

A White House spokesman offered this statement in response to CNN's request for comment: "No one in the White House -- including the President, Vice President and senior members of the NSC -- has spoken to Mr. Cohen about any Russia-Ukraine peace proposal, and no one has spoken to Andrii Artemenko at all about any matter.

"In addition, the NSC keeps comprehensive records of documents received, and we have no record of receiving any proposal from Mr. Cohen. This is another absurd, misleading attempt to distract from the real reform taking place under President Trump."

Artemenko left the interview with CNN to attend what he said was a meeting with the President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, although the presidential administration denied such a meeting took place.

Yet moments after leaving the interview, Ukrainian prosecutors announced he would be investigated for "treason" over the deal.Atlanta (CNN) Progressive activist groups backing Keith Ellison in the race to chair the Democratic National Committee are making a final push for the Minnesota congressman the day before the vote.

In a letter to DNC members obtained by CNN, the leaders of five groups at the heart of the political left -- MoveOn, the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, Democracy for America, 350 Action and Presente Action -- argued that only Ellison can bridge the divide between the Democratic establishment and the party's grassroots.

The groups also said they'd be "eager to engage" directly with the party's infrastructure under Ellison's leadership.

It was an implicit rebuke of former Labor Secretary Tom Perez, who is in a tight race with Ellison for DNC chair.

The letter comes as progressive groups -- many of which allied with Bernie Sanders during the 2016 Democratic presidential primary -- make their final case for Ellison even as Perez's camp says it is near the 222 of 442 eligible voting DNC members it will need to secure the job.

Read More(CNN) Seconds after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell uttered the phrase, it became a battle cry for Democrats. And judging from the line outside a Minneapolis tattoo parlor earlier this week, "nevertheless, she persisted" is still resonating strongly.

On Tuesday, more than 100 women -- and a few men -- waited in line at Brass Knuckle Tattoo Studio to get a tattoo of the quote.

Writer Nora McInerny accidentally ignited the movement when she created a Facebook event set to public rather than private. She knew a few friends who were interested in the tattoo, and thought it would be fun to get them together. Within a few days, 1,900 people said they were interested.

Brass Knuckle was shocked by the turnout.

"There were already people lining up at 11 even though it started at 3," Shawn Phelps, owner of the studio, told CNN.

Graphic designer Chelsea Brink designed the phrase in three different variations, and three artists came in on their off day. There were about 150 people in line, but the artists had to stop after tattooing 70.

"The three of us tattooed people from 3 p.m. until midnight, and then we couldn't do anymore," Phelps said. "We were running out of supplies."

Hundreds of people have expressed interest in the tattoo since the event. "Yesterday the phone rang so much that it killed the battery," Phelps said, laughing.

Making a difference locally

The event raised more than $4,000 for Women Winning , which supports the election of pro-choice women of all political parties to all levels of public office. The tattoos cost $75, but the studio says it only kept $20 to cover the cost of supplies. The rest was donated.

"It was amazing and gratifying to see so many women gathered to support our mission of electing pro-choice women here in Minnesota," Lauren Beecham, executive director of Women Winning, told CNN. "We knew there were many interested on social media but we were floored by the incredible outpouring of support -- which only mirrors the energy and passion we've seen since the election."

Graphic designer Chelsea Brink designed the tattoo.

Brink is willing to share her art with anyone who wants it, under the condition that they make a donation to a woman's rights organization in exchange.

"The whole point was not just to get a tattoo but to make it an active way to get involved and make a difference in our community," Brink told CNN.

"It was pretty amazing to watch and be a part of it," Phelps said. "It ended up being such a movement that I've never seen before. It was incredible."

About that line

"She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted."

The line was delivered by McConnell after Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren read a letter written 30 years ago by Coretta Scott King, the widow of Martin Luther King Jr., opposing the nomination of Jeff Sessions for a federal judgeship.

Republicans accused Warren of violating Senate rules against impugning another senator, which was upheld by a vote.

Democrats across the country immediately re-purposed the line as a battle cry in the form of T-shirts, phone cases, and the hashtag #LetLizSpeak. Just weeks after the historic Woman's March took place worldwide, women took to Twitter to share their stories of 'persisting' through sexism.

As for the comments already piling up regarding the tattoos, McInerny isn't bothered. "This is not a tattoo for myself," she said. "It is for every woman I know or don't know. People have taken this as some sort of personal affront when it isn't. It feels personally important to have these little reminders."Washington (CNN) The crowd at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington erupted in applause Friday when Matt Schlapp, the organizer of the event, congratulated top White House staff on President Donald Trump's decision to roll back protections for transgender students in public schools.

"He's even leaving bathrooms alone," Schlapp told attendees. "That's kind of a nice, refreshing thing for a lot of people as well."

Last May, after North Carolina passed a controversial bill that requires transgender people in government buildings to use bathrooms corresponding to the sex identified on their birth certificates, the Obama administration issued guidance requiring public schools to allow transgender students to use the bathroom that corresponds to their gender identity. The guidance—currently at the center of a pending Supreme Court case—was withdrawn by the Trump administration on Feb 22.

"They happen to think it's a state issue," White House chief of staff Reince Priebus said.

But while Republicans generally support local control and the rights of states to pass their own laws, not all states' rights are created equal in the eyes of the new White House. Case in point: state marijuana laws.Washington (CNN) Lawyers for Gavin Grimm, a transgender teen who is barred from using the boys' bathroom at his Virginia high school, told the Supreme Court Thursday that his challenge to the school board policy should go forward, arguing that the restrooms "must be equally available to all boys and all girls, including boys and girls who are transgender."

The filing comes the day after the Trump administration withdrew Obama-era guidance on transgender bathroom use in public schools. That guidance issued last May articulated that Title IX -- a federal law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in federally funded education programs -- includes discrimination based on gender identity.

The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments in Grimm's case on March 28 and legal experts question whether the justices could decide to use the Trump administration's move to dodge a ruling on the merits. A lower court had deferred to the Obama administration's when it ruled in favor of Grimm.

"The withdrawal of the guidance only impacts one of the questions in the case -- whether the Obama administration's guidance was valid. Even without it, the larger question, whether transgender discrimination should be treated as sex discrimination under federal statutes, remains," said Steve Vladeck, a CNN contributor and professor at the University of Texas School of Law.

Joshua Block, an ACLU lawyer representing Grimm, argued in court papers that the justices should still hear and decide the remaining question in the case.

Read More(CNN) Nationally syndicated radio host Glenn Beck said Thursday that White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon's "economic nationalism" agenda is not conservative.

Bannon, in a rare public appearance, outlined President Donald Trump's agenda at the Conservative Political Action Conference.

"He talked about populism and nationalism a lot," Beck told Anderson Cooper on "AC360." "They were laying the ground that we are a White House of economic nationalism and populism. That is not conservative and really, I think very, very dangerous."

"When he talks about economic nationalism, what does that mean to you? What does that mean to him?" Cooper asked, to which Beck replied, "It means tariffs. And tariffs, as you know, Anderson, it was Smoot-Hawley , the gigantic tariff in 1933 that set the Great Depression."

"Whenever a country feels that they are losing their place in the world, they slap tariffs on. And that will just start to slap more tariffs on from other countries," he added.

Read MoreProtesters in favor of a $15 minimum wage gather in New York to rally against Andrew Puzder, President Trump's nominee for labor secretary, on Monday, February 13. Puzder, the CEO of the company that owns the Hardee's and Carl's Jr. fast-food chains, withdrew his nomination two days later. He had faced intense criticism since his appointment in December. Current and former employees spoke out against him, and Democrats and labor activists attacked his record on worker rights. Puzder has a long history of fighting against government regulation, a $15 minimum wage and the Affordable Care Act. He also admitted to having employed an undocumented immigrant as a housekeeper.Oxon Hill, Maryland (CNN) The conservative movement is learning to love President Donald Trump. But he's no Ronald Reagan ... yet.

Thirty-six years ago, the newly inaugurated President Reagan showed up at the Conservative Political Action Conference, CPAC, to a jubilant reception.

"Our time is now. Our moment has arrived. We stand together shoulder-to-shoulder in the thickest of the fight," Reagan announced.

Friday, Trump hopes to engineer a pivotal political moment that will echo Reagan's.

"I think by tomorrow this will be TPAC," predicted the president's counselor Kellyanne Conway, launching an intense White House charm offensive at the conservative extravaganza on Thursday, priming the crowd for Trump's speech.

The President's appearance will mark a milestone in his transformation of a Republican Party that finds its traditional social, economic and national security constituencies infused with his power base of blue-collar supporters who were electrified by his populist rhetoric.

Trump was a harder sell for the conservative grassroots than Reagan, whose political spirit still resonates at every CPAC, after he hoisted the conservative movement from the depths of Barry Goldwater's 1964 election debacle to the White House 16 years later.

JUST WATCHED The mystique of 'President Bannon' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The mystique of 'President Bannon' 01:55

In many ways, Trump is in the opposite position, after ravaging the hopes of conservative rising stars like Sens. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz in capturing the Republican nomination last year.

For much of the presidential campaign, many conservatives doubted that Trump was really among their number at all, given his flamboyant thrice-married lifestyle and decades spent as the tabloid king of liberal Manhattan and his late conversions to non-negotiable conservative positions on issues like abortion.

His brand of non-ideological populism and "America First" economic nationalism still seems an odd fit for the spending hawks, evangelicals and libertarians that have traditionally made up the broad CPAC coalition.

But to paraphrase former GOP defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld, you go to war with the President you have, not the one you might want, and conservatives are becoming more and more comfortable with their new champion in the White House.

How Trump fits in with the conservative movement

At times, Thursday's roster of speakers at CPAC felt like aseminar devoted to refashioning Trump as a conservative befitting the movement's core principles.

Speakers exhorted activists, who include many students who represent the movement's future, to remember that Trump was as good as his word in nominating an authentic conservative, Neil Gorsuch, for the Supreme Court.

Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, a movement heroine fresh off a tough confirmation fight, also rallied the crowd, painting Trump as the epitome of anti-establishment views on school choice and liberal college professors that have long percolated among conservatives.

And Vice President Mike Pence, an ambassador between Trump and social conservatives, vouched for his boss at CPAC on Thursday night, rolling off crowd-favorites such the confirmation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, restoring the Mexico City Policy on abortion funding and promises to repeal Obama-era regulations and executive actions.

"I believe President Trump has given voice to aspirations and frustrations to Americans like no leader since Reagan," Pence said.

Conway, a fixture at CPAC for years, made the case that though Trump hardly fit the traditional profile of conservatism, he is an appropriate leader for the movement in the White House.

"Every great movement, which the conservative movement is of course ... ends up being a little bit sclerotic and dusty after a time, and I think they need an infusion of energy," Conway said, arguing that the insurgent President is a kindred spirit to conservatives who feel their views brand them as outsiders.

"He's sort of the first candidate of his type -- that non-politician, true outsider (who) was coming to shake up the system," she said.

CPAC also called upon a professor, Larry Arnn, President of Hillsdale College, to chart an ideological path for conservatives to reach Trump.

Arnn defined conservatism as the preservation of founding US principles, a restrained government unrecognizable from an "ugly" and unconstitutional federal state he said had been bequeathed by progressives.

"If you see that, then you see somebody running for president, and even if he talks about himself too much, if he is fearless in saying that he is going to cut back that vast hedge that has come and overcome so much of our country, if he does that fearlessly and is not afraid of that political correctness, I think that guy is a conservative," Arnn said.

What a difference a year makes

The embrace of Trump was a far cry from last year, when the businessman skipped the annual conservative extravaganza, and speakers and his then primary rivals mocked his no-show.

American Conservative Union Chairman Matt Schlapp remarked on the change of atmosphere this year and posed the question underlying three days of festivities which traditionally serve as a pageant of inspiration for young conservatives as they return to their communities.

"Trump brought a lot of new people. There's probably people in this crowd that wouldn't have been in this crowd before," he said.

"So there's a lot of diversity here ... Can this Trump movement be combined with what's (been) happening at CPAC and other conservative movements for 50 years? Can this be brought together?"

In case anyone had missed the point, the White House rolled out the heavyweight duo of Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Trump's political guru Steve Bannon for a rare joint appearance meant to scotch reports that they are feuding.

"President Trump brought together the party and the conservative movement. If the party and the conservative movement are together like Steve and I, it can't be stopped," said Priebus, a creature of the establishment, who in temperament and ideology could hardly be less like his fiery colleague from the movement's nationalist fringe.

Once, as Priebus was talking, a chant of "Trump, Trump, Trump," erupted from the conference floor.

Bannon, often seen as the hidden Machiavelli of the West Wing and the guardian of Trump's unique political philosophy, showed how the billionaire has changed the ideological tilt of the GOP.

Spelling out a creed of strong national defense, economic nationalism and the destruction of the regulatory state, he lauded Trump's decision to pull out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership -- a move at odds with the Republican Party's globalist pro-trade heritage -- as "one of the pivotal moments in modern American history."

Bannon also fired up delegates with a vow to battle the "opposition party," as he calls the media.

"As economic conditions get better, as more jobs get better, they're going to continue to fight," Bannon said. "If you think they're going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken. Every day, it is going to be a fight."

Changing face of CPAC?

But the newly nationalist face of conservatism embraced by Trump and his acolytes has some traditional adherents of the movement nervous.

Conservative commentator David Frum said on Twitter that Bannon had been "impressively candid" about Trump's agenda of launching a "series of trade wars" across the world.

"Reince says Trump administration is about taxes & regulation. Bannon says it's about overturning the global order. Nuances," Frum wrote.

Ahead of the conference, CPAC retracted a speaking invitation to nationalist polemicist Milo Yiannopoulos after comments in which he appeared to endorse sex between "younger boys and older men."

Yiannopoulos also resigned from Breitbart News, the conservative news site formerly run by Bannon.

As they embrace the populist, nationalist brand of conservatism espoused by Trump, CPAC organizers are also taking steps to shield their brand from more extreme elements — including the alt-right movement that has in some cases backed the new President or used his rise to gain more notoriety for itself.

Some alt-right activists are accused of harboring extreme, racist and anti-Semitic views, and the ACU's Executive Director Dan Schneider warned delegates that its "sinister" influence is trying to "worm its way" into their ranks.

"They are racists, they are sexists, they hate the Constitution, they hate free markets, they hate pluralism," Schneider said.

"They despise everything we believe in. They are not an extension of conservatism. They are nothing but garden variety left-wing fascists."Story highlights The government has not said how many people were deported nationwide after the ban went into effect

A federal judge in New York issued a temporary restraining order on deportations in the wake of the executive order

Washington (CNN) The Trump administration revealed for the first time on Thursday that 746 individuals nationwide were held during the first weekend of President Donald Trump's travel ban, according to the American Civil Liberties Union.

The Justice Department wrote in a cover letter transmitting the list of names to counsel that it includes anyone who was "encountered or undergoing processing" by US Customs and Border Patrol and "this list includes legal permanent residents."

The list stems from a court order in Darweesh v. Trump, the first federal case to challenge the travel ban. US District Court Judge Donnelly in the Eastern District of New York originally issued a nationwide temporary restraining order on January 28, preventing the removal of those who were legally authorized to enter the US. Donnelly also ordered the government to provide a list of individuals who were detained pursuant to the executive order but did not specify what time period should be covered.

On Tuesday, at the ACLU's request, US District Court Judge Carol Bagley Amon ordered the Trump administration to produce the names by 5 p.m. on Thursday. Amon's order includes anyone who, at any time during the period from 9:37 p.m. ET on January 28 until 11:59 p.m. ET on January 29, was being "held, including being processed," by US Customs and Border Protection pursuant to the executive order.

Several days after the travel ban went into effect -- and began to face lawsuits in federal court -- the White House counsel's office clarified that legal permanent residents were not covered by the executive order.

Read MoreStory highlights "I don't know if we're going to be able to repeal Obamacare now because these folks who support Obamacare are very active," Brooks said.

"And you may not even see a vote to repeal Obamacare, you might see something where they call it a repeal but really it's an amendment," he added.

(CNN) Republican Rep. Mo Brooks said Thursday that protests at town halls around the country might prevent Republican lawmakers from repealing the Affordable Care Act.

"I'll tell you, Toni, there are a, in my opinion, a significant number of congressmen who are being impacted by these kinds of protests and their spine is a little bit weak," the Alabama congressman said in an interview on "The Morning Show with Toni & Gary" on WBHP 800 Alabama radio. "And I don't know if we're going to be able to repeal Obamacare now because these folks who support Obamacare are very active, they're putting pressure on congressman and there's not a counter-effort to steal the spine of some of these congressmen in tossup districts around the country."

Brooks continued, "And you may not even see a vote to repeal Obamacare, you might see something where they call it a repeal but really it's an amendment. You and I have talked about this before. We need an outright repeal of Obamacare and then whatever's gonna come after it, fine, let's have that discussion. But this monstrosity needs to be repealed and right now, in my judgment, we don't have the votes in Congress to pass a repeal bill, in part because of what these people are doing."

Since Donald Trump's inauguration, protesters have disrupted town halls held by Republican legislators, with the potential repeal of Obamacare emerging as one of the most controversial issues. Utah Rep. Jason Chaffetz claimed that protesters are out to "bully and intimidate" lawmakers.

Brooks similarly painted a grim portrait of the protests, claiming that there were "some anarchist types, criminal element types, disruptor types," though he described a meeting he held on Wednesday with local leaders of "Indivisible," a national organizing group that opposes President Trump's agenda, as a "polite exchange of ideas."

Read MoreWashington (CNN) White House strategist Steve Bannon described the European Union as a flawed institution to Germany's US envoy a week before Vice President Mike Pence reaffirmed the US commitment to the EU in Brussels, two diplomatic sources with knowledge of the conversation told CNN.

Diplomats said that Pence's message of reassurance fell flat on European officials who are concerned about contradictory messages from Washington regarding the future relationship between the US and the EU. And it adds to the list of subjects about which President Donald Trump and administration officials are confusing allies.

'Combative conversation'

Bannon told Peter Witting, the German ambassador to the US, that the Trump administration wants to strengthen bilateral ties with individual European countries rather than deal with the entire bloc, the sources said.

In what was described as a "combative" conversation, the sources said Bannon spelled out a nationalist world view and cited a wave of anti-EU populism as evidence of the bloc's flaws, a similar refrain to the one he had previously articulated as the chief of the right-wing website Breitbart News.

US Vice President Mike Pence (R) walks with European Council head Donald Tusk (L) prior to their meeting at the European Commission in Brussels on February 20, 2017.

"It is my privilege on behalf of President Trump to express the strong commitment of the United States to continued cooperation and partnership with the European Union," he said at a meeting with European Council President Donald Tusk. "The United States' commitment to the European Union is steadfast and enduring."

A senior Trump administration official denied that Bannon disparaged the European Union during what they said was a "quick meeting" with the German ambassador.

Separately, a White House spokesperson said the conversation being described as confrontational was "not an accurate account" and that the conversation "was just a quick hello."

JUST WATCHED Who is Steve Bannon? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Steve Bannon? 01:25

The vice president's office did not respond to a request for comment.

"There is no one in the administration who really understands the EU's important role and certainly nobody who will defend it," one diplomat told CNN, adding, "Pence and others are saying basic reassuring things that we aren't sure square with not only the policy, but also what where the President sits."

The official continued, "We don't want to jump to conclusions. We don't know whether Bannon will be able to carry through with his vision and we don't know what Trump thinks."

The conversation between Bannon and Wittig was first reported by Reuters.

Lack of US backing

French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault pointed out the omission on Twitter following Pence's speech to the Munich Security Conference ahead of his Brussels stop.

"In Munich, Vice President Pence renewed the U.S. commitment to the Atlantic alliance. But not a word about the EU," he wrote.

Speaking after meeting with Pence Monday, however, Tusk stressed Pence's expression of backing for the EU during their private session.

"We are counting, as always in the past, on the United States' wholehearted and unequivocal -- let me repeat, unequivocal --support for the idea of a united Europe," Tusk said. The world would be a decidedly worse place if Europe were not united," Tusk said. "In this respect we will not invent anything better than the European Union."

'Neither pro-EU nor anti-EU'

A senior White House official involved in foreign policy told CNN that the Trump administration's European policy is neither "pro-EU" nor "anti-EU."

The official explained that the administration would focus on cooperation with the bloc without advocating for it overtly, adding that if a country decides to hold a referendum on exiting the union, the White House will remain neutral.

That's a shift from the administration of President Barack Obama, which vocally advocated against Britain's decision to leave the EU this summer, a campaign that included a presidential visit to London in April 2016.

Decisions on whether to remain a member, the official said, should be left to the countries themselves, without US interference. The official added that while the US will seek to cooperate with the EU in already-existing areas of collaboration, it is not seeking to bolster the union by preventing further disintegration.

Trump himself praised the Brexit vote during the presidential campaign, calling himself "Mr. Brexit" following the result of the referendum.

And days before his inauguration Trump called the EU "basically a vehicle for Germany" in an interview with German and British newspapers, adding, "That's why I thought the UK was so smart in getting out."

JUST WATCHED What is the European Union? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is the European Union? 02:00

In Brussels, Pence was extremely cautious in his language on the EU. While he vowed "cooperation" with the bloc, he never explicitly said the US "supports" the EU.

Both Wittig and the German government declined to comment for this story, citing the private nature of the conversation.

But one of the diplomatic sources CNN spoke to said that Wittig gave a passionate argument about the importance of the EU and felt his views were heard by Bannon.

The senior Trump official, however, said that the only topic that came up was that the US would continue to stress the importance of NATO members -- including Germany -- devoting 2% of their GDP to defense spending

Pence repeatedly stressed the defense spending issue during his European tour -- as did Defense Secretary James Mattis, who also attended the Munich conference -- something German officials called a "fair demand." But both men also repeatedly stressed America's support of NATO.