
President Donald Trump returned to CPAC on Friday, receiving a rock star welcome from the packed ballroom.

He kicked off the speech defending his statement on Twitter that the media was the “enemy of the people,” vowing to fight their “fake news” stories.


“A few days ago I called the fake news ‘the enemy of the people,’ and they are. They are the enemy of the people,” he said, criticizing their “dishonest coverage” of his administration.

Trump admitted that the media was very upset by his repeated criticisms, but that he would continue to do so, citing the First Amendment.

“They get upset, they say we can’t criticize their dishonest coverage because of the first amendment. They always bring up the First Amendment,” he said. “I love the First Amendment. Nobody loves it better than me.”

Trump traveled to the conference center in Maryland aboard Marine One, returning to the CPAC conference where he made his first big politically themed speeches. Supporters lined up hours early to get in the conference hall, but had to go through tight security to enter the building.

During his speech, the president vowed to keep his campaign promises, specifically a repeal and replace of Obamacare, building the Keystone and Dakota pipelines, building a wall on the southern border, restoring military funding.

“We have to, to turn things around. The era of empty talk is over,” he said. “It’s over. Now is the time for action.”

Trump also promised to restore the greatness of the American economy and bring back manufacturing jobs to the country.

“The GOP, from now on, will be the party of the American worker,” he said.

Trump also sounded an anti-globalist message promising to focus his administration on the United States first.

“There is no such thing as a global anthem, a global currency, or a global flag,” he said. “I’m not representing the globe. I’m representing your country.”

Although he was interrupted by a few protestors, his supporters cheered wildly and shouted USA! during his speech.

Trump pointed to a bright future under his leadership, thanking his supporters for their efforts during the campaign.

“The future belongs to all of us,” he said.
Americans support Donald Trump’s Jan. 25 comprehensive immigration reform by three to one, according to a new poll by Rasmussen Reports.

Sixty-one percent of Americans agree with the immigration priorities described in Trump’s Jan. 25 Executive Order, which seeks to exclude migrants who oppose Americans’ values. Only 19 percent of Americans — and only 28 percent of Democrats — disapprove of Trump’s decision to align immigration policy with Americans’ civic and cultural values.


Here’s the critical passage from Trump’s reform:

In order to protect Americans, the United States must ensure that those admitted to this country do not bear hostile attitudes toward it and its founding principles. The United States cannot, and should not, admit those who do not support the Constitution, or those who would place violent ideologies over American law. In addition, the United States should not admit those who engage in acts of bigotry or hatred (including “honor” killings, other forms of violence against women, or the persecution of those who practice religions different from their own) or those who would oppress Americans of any race, gender, or sexual orientation.

The new Rasmussen poll asked respondents if they favor a proposal that would keep out “those who do not support the U.S. Constitution or who would place violent ideologies over American law. In addition, the United States would not admit those who engage in acts of bigotry or hatred for reasons of religion, race, gender or sexual orientation.”

Sixty-one percent approved the policy, 19 percent opposed, and 21 percent declined to answer the question.

Fifty-one percent of African-Americans supported the policy, as did 49 percent of Democrats and 57 percent of independents.

Trump’s popular policy was largely ignored by the establishment media, which instead focussed on his popular exclusion of Islamic migrants and refugees from several majority Muslim countries. That subordinate part of his plan is being opposed by pro-diversity Islamist groups, progressives, and judges in the Ninth Circuit of Appeals.

Curiously, even though 28 percent of Democrats oppose Trump’s reform of immigration policy to match American values, 65 percent of Democrats also wish to impose tougher penalties on fellow Americans who commit crimes that violate progressives’ political values.

When asked “Should criminals be prosecuted more severely if it can be proven that their crime was motivated by the victim’s race, color, religion, national origin or sexual orientation?” 65 percent of Democrats said yes, as did 57 percent of Republicans.

The survey of 1,000 American adults was conducted on Feb. 20-21, 2017 by Rasmussen Reports.

Other polls show that Americans want legal immigrants to integrate into the U.S. culture, and they oppose Americans’ integration into foreign cultures.

In June 2016, for example, a poll showed that 56 percent of Americans want to exclude migrants who believe in Islam’s sharia law, which requires that democracy and civic norms be subordinated to the Islamic scriptures. In contrast, only about 20 percent of Americans told the pollster that they did not oppose the immigration of people who believe in sharia law.

Through his tenure, President Barack Obama boosted the progressive claim that Americans should not put their culture first but instead should subordinate their free-wheeling society into a diverse globalist mix of conflicting foreign cultures and governments.

Obama described his pro-diversity policy in a Nov. 2014 speech to Democratic supporters in Chicago:

Sometimes we get attached to our particular tribe, our particular race, our particular religion, and then we start treating other folks differently. And that, sometimes, has been a bottleneck to how we think about immigration. If you look at the history of immigration in this country, each successive wave, there have been periods where the folks who were already here suddenly say, ‘Well, I don’t want those folks’ — even though the only people who have the right to say that are some Native Americans.

Obama made the same diversity-first claim in September 2015:

When I hear folks talking as if somehow these [foreign] kids are different than my kids or less worthy in the eyes of God, that somehow that they are less worthy of our respect and consideration and care, I think that’s un-American. I don’t believe that, I think it is wrong and I think we should do better, because that’s how America was made.

Alongside Americans’ support for their culture, Americans also want fellow Americans to get jobs and opportunities prior to foreigners. Polls show that roughly 80 percent of Americans say companies should hire young Americans before hiring migrants.

A July 2016 poll shows that roughly three out of four voters — including nearly three out of four Democrat voters — believe that “instead of giving jobs and healthcare to millions of refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner cities and put Americans back to work.” The view was shared by almost 90 percent of African-Americans and almost 70 percent of Hispanics.

Under current policy, the federal government annually provide new work permits to roughly 1 million legal immigrants and to roughly 1 million temporary contract workers. That policy adds roughly 2 million new workers to the labor supply each year, just as 4 million young Americans begin looking for work, and it shifts roughly $500 billion per year from employees to employers and investors, according to an analysis provided in a September report by the National Academy of Sciences.
Students4Justice, a student activist group at the University of Michigan, is demanding campus officials provide them with “a permanent designated space on central campus for Black students and students of color to organize and do social justice work.”

The student activists are disappointed with school administrators and launched a petition aimed at University President Mark Schlissel. They claim he has shown “lackluster leadership” in “protecting the safety” of non-white students on campus.


The activist group spent the last month marching on campus, holding sit-ins, and even protested outside of Schlissel’s home “in the middle of the night.”

“Our president has blatantly ignored us and it is time for us to speak up. We have been told that our demands are ‘rude,’” states a Facebook post. “We are calling on someone to care about students’ concerns and to lead us with integrity and help us fight against the oppression and hateful acts that try to destroy us and our community.”

The Michigan Review — an independent student news outlet that first reported Student4Justice’s list of demands — reports the group’s insistence on a segregated space for students of color to launch social justice projects is raising eyebrows, given that the university has already begun construction on a $10 million center for non-white students in the center of campus.

“The same organization that criticizes the University for failing to create ‘an environment that engages in diversity, equity and inclusion,’ is calling upon the University to undermine these ideals by facilitating a sort of de facto segregation? One where space and resources are designated for students based solely on the color of their skin?” the Michigan Review reported.

“To advocate for the ideals of diversity, equity and inclusion, while simultaneously calling upon the University to sanction these spaces on campus is both unprincipled and laughably regressive.”

Students4Justice’s list of demands, the College Fix reports, insists that school administrators offer “‘marginalized” students ‘when oppressive attacks occur,’ increasing the affirmative action of ‘Black, Arab, and other PoC’ in tenured faculty, more readily alerting students on campus of ‘bias incidents,’ and offering more financial aid for those of lower socioeconomic status.”

“Our president has blatantly ignored us and it is time for us to speak up. We have been told that our demands are ‘rude,’” states a Facebook post. “We are calling on someone to care about students’ concerns and to lead us with integrity and help us fight against the oppression and hateful acts that try to destroy us and our community.”

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson
A group of witches is attempting to use black magic to neutralize U.S. President Donald Trump by casting a “binding spell” to prevent him from governing.

The “mass spell to bind Donald Trump” will be performed at midnight on every waning crescent moon beginning Friday, February 24, “until Donald Trump is removed from office,” the group’s website states.


The mass ritual will allegedly be repeated again March 26, April 24, May 23, June 21 (the summer solstice), July 21, and August 19.

The spell also invokes evil on “those who abet” Trump, which would seem to appear to cover his staff and political nominees, and perhaps the millions who voted for him as well.

The spell involves such items as an unflattering photo of Trump, a tower tarot card, a tiny stub of an orange candle, a pin or small nail, water, salt, a feather and an ashtray.

“This binding spell is open source, and may be modified to fit your preferred spiritual practice or magical system,” the site explains. What is critical is “the simultaneity of the working” as well as “the mass energy of participants.”

“Some lodges/covens are doing a variation of this as a group working, while a number of solitary practitioners are planning to connect and livestream via Facebook, Twitter, and other social media,” the site explains.

In reaction, a number of Christian groups and individuals have promised to pray for Mr. Trump, asking God’s blessings on his work and on the nation.

The witches’ spell involves a lengthy incantation, calling on spirits and “demons of the infernal realms” to bind Donald J. Trump so that “he may fail utterly, that he may do no harm.”

Calling on the spirits to work the same harm on “all those who enable his wickedness and those whose mouths speak his poisonous lies,” the hex beseeches the spirits to “bind them in chains, bind their tongues, bind their works, bind their wickedness.”

The climax of the spell involves a crescendo “with increasing passion” ending by blowing out the orange candle while “visualizing Trump blowing apart into dust or ash.”

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsrome
Only 28 percent of Americans support former President Barack Obama’s pro-transgender claim that the federal government should decide bathroom policies in elementary and secondary schools, says a new poll by Rasmussen Reports.

In contrast, 36 percent said local governments should set “bathroom policies” governing youths who say they want to live as members of the opposite sex. Another 28 percent of respondents said state government should set the rules for transgender disputes, according to the poll.


That adds up to 64 percent opposition and only 28 percent support for federal rule.

The two-to-one opposition is bad news for progressives, who are currently campaigning for federal politicians and federal judges to impose a national policy that would allow people to change their legal sex by simply declaring they have the “gender identity” of an opposite-sex person.

This week, President Donald Trump announced he is discarding Obama’s May 2016 national K-12 pro-transgender policy and is delegating the issue to state and local governments. However, his administration has not announced whether it opposes the gay groups’ demand that “gender identity” should determine a person’s legal sex.

The new Rasmussen poll also shows that only 38 percent of respondents favor “allowing transgender students to use the bathrooms of the opposite biological sex.” That policy was opposed by 49 percent of Americans, including 64 percent of Republicans, 36 percent of Democrats and 49 percent of adults who say they are neither Democratic nor Republican. The Feb. 22 to 23 poll included 1,000 adults.

The public opposition to the transgender identity-before-biology ideology increases when the questions are asked about younger schoolkids. For example, an April poll by Civitas showed that only 7 percent of 600 North Carolinians strongly supported a judge’s demand “ordering girls and boys in public middle schools to share locker rooms, bathroom, and shower facilities.” The demand was strongly opposed by 72 percent of respondents.

The new poll by Rasmussen only asked about bathrooms, and so doesn’t reveal political support for the underlying political demand by gay groups that a person’s “gender identity,” not their biological sex, should determine whether they are male or female. In March, the Supreme Cour this expected to hear a case in which gay advocates want the judges to redefine the meaning of “sex” in a 1972 sexual discrimination law from biological sex to “gender identity.”

That’s a revolutionary demand, because if individuals can freely flip their sex from male to female or vice versa, then the nation’s many single-sex institutions will face enormous legal pressure to admit people of the opposite biological sex. For example, shelters for battered women may be forced to open their doors to men who claim battery, women’s sports leagues will be forced to admit bigger and stronger men who claim to be women, and schoolbooks and parenting guides used by government grantees would be forced to define “women” merely as people who say they are women, effectively discarding the nation’s cultural history of women, girls and feminists.

Already, the Boy Scouts of America have decided to admit girls who want to live as boys, and have also begun changing their language to downplay their prior focus on the needs of young boys. Similarly, sports leagues for women have been forced to admit biological males and also to admit girls who are taking muscle-boosting male testosterone hormones.

Also, the progressive trend is forcing progressives to rebuke ordinary Americans who don’t want men walking into the public bathrooms used by their young children. That politically questionable stance was highlighted by CNN anchor Chris Cuomo, who entangled himself in a Twitter fight when he suggested that a father was being intolerant for saying he doesn’t want his 12 year-old-daughter to share a public toilet with men who are trying to live as women.

Cuomo retreated from the fight by claiming that a court would decide if the gender-before-sex law would create safety problem by allowing sexual predators into bathrooms. But he ignored the larger issue that women’s bathrooms– and locker rooms and sports leagues — would also become open to men who say they are women if fixed biology is deemed less important than changeable “gender identity.”

A recent poll by a pro-transgender group at UCLA showed that only 23 percent of Americans think people should be allowed to switch their legal sex without any tests or approval by government agencies.
Former President George W. Bush’s daughter, Barbara Pierce Bush, will deliver the keynote address at a Planned Parenthood fundraiser in North Texas.

Bush, the CEO and co-founder of Global Health Corps (GHC), is headlining Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas’s 2017 Fort Worth luncheon, reports the Texas Tribune:


High schoolers! Earn community service hours, learn about sexual health, and inspire change Register now: https://t.co/J9rBTTAr95! pic.twitter.com/VpPTjfyJBZ — Planned Parenthood (@PPGreaterTX) February 4, 2017

“We believe that every person has the right to live a healthy, dignified life,” GHC says in its mission statement. “We also believe that everyone has a role to play in advancing social justice through the health equity movement.”

Bush, 34, joined with her twin sister, Jenna Bush Hager, and others to found GHC in 2009. The organization says its main concern is that “access to healthcare that exists today between the world’s rich and the world’s poor is unjust and unsustainable.”

Speaker sponsors for the fundraiser for the abortion chain’s Greater Texas affiliate will pay $20,000, while Platinum and Gold Sponsors will pay $10,000 and $5,000, respectively.

As Breitbart News reported in June of 2016, the New York Times interviewed Bush and Planned Parenthood’s president, Cecile Richards, as they lunched at the Gotham Bar and Grill.

“Can I say how impressive Barbara is?” Richards complimented Bush. “It’s one thing to work at a 100-year-old organization like Planned Parenthood, trying to shift the boat into the 21st century. But it’s another to say: ‘I see a problem, and I’m going to start an organization to fix it.’”

Bush explained her motivation to form her organization.

“Since I was born, in 1981, we’ve had the drugs to save the millions of kids around the world who die every year,” she said. “Yet the number of deaths hasn’t dropped at all. We have the tools to keep people healthy, but the systems are broken.”

Richards commiserated with her: “It’s the same in reproductive health. We have the technology. But it’s not enough unless there’s public policy that supports getting women access to care.”

Richards is the daughter of the late Gov. Ann Richards (D) of Texas, who eventually lost to Bush’s father, Republican President George W. Bush, when he ran for governor of Texas in 1994.

One of the main connections Richards and Bush have is Hillary Clinton.

Planned Parenthood and the abortion industry endorsed Clinton in her bid for the White House in 2016. Clinton said unborn babies have no constitutional rights and that, if elected president, she would work to have the Hyde Amendment repealed so that taxpayer funds could be used for abortions – an outcome that would have been an obvious boost for the abortion business.

GHC provides opportunities for young people to “work on the frontlines of the fight for global health equity” and offers paid fellowships for them with various “placement” organizations, among them Planned Parenthood Global. Additionally, GHC has provided “placements” at the Clinton Development Initiative, the Clinton Health Access Initiative, and the Clinton Health Matters Initiative – all of which are part of the Clinton Foundation.

Peter Schweizer’s book Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich details the vast amounts of money that have flowed to both Bill and Hillary Clinton through their foundation from corporations and nations seeking favorable treatment from them.

In August of 2013, Bush said she hoped Clinton would run for president because she is “unbelievably accomplished.”

Bush told Richards during their lunch interview, “It’s crazy and sad to think that health care is a polarizing issue.” She went on to say that the young people in her organization are able to “work on social change” at “Planned Parenthood and other exceptional organizations.”
OXON HILL, Md.—Calling Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) “one of the leading constitutionalists” in America, conservative giant Mark Levin engaged the prominent Texan senator at CPAC on Thursday in a wide-ranging conversation covering the Constitution, immigration, and the Second Amendment. Many CPAC-goers are wondering if Cruz might be President Trump’s next pick for the Supreme Court.

“Let me ask you about the courts,” Levin said early through the interview, asking Cruz about the recent decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit against Trump’s executive order restricting foreigners from seven terror-prone nations from entering the United States.


“You look at judicial activism,” Cruz began, unloading on the San Francisco-based appeals court. “They don’t even cite the controlling federal law!” he exclaimed, noting that Congress in 8 U.S.C. § 1182(f) explicitly delegated to the president the power to do precisely what Trump did in issuing Executive Order 13,769.

Cruz also tackled the Second Amendment, blasting a decision this week from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, which held that firearms useful in military conflicts are not protected by the Second Amendment.

“It is nuts!” the senator declared. “If we were living back in 1789, your musket would be really useful for military conflict,” yet muskets are clearly protected as part of the right to bear arms.

He explained that the Second Amendment is “about protecting your home, and your family, and your life,” and that any firearms that could achieve that purpose could also be used in a military setting. But, he continued, this appeals court—which is now dominated by liberal Democrat-appointed judges—have excluded all such firearms from constitutional protection.

“So apparently the Second Amendment protects feather-dusters,” Cruz added sarcastically, saying that if someone breaks into your home, the owner can make sure the intruder is clean while he’s robbing the house.

Later the conversation shifted to Jeff Sessions becoming the nation’s top law enforcement officer as attorney general. “Let me just say that again: ‘Attorney General Jeff Sessions,’” Cruz said, to the laughter and applause of the crowd. “I just like to make Chuck Schumer twitch,” he quipped.

“The Democrats right now are living in an alternative universe,” he went on, discussing Democratic reactions to Sessions and various other presidential appointments.

He pointed out that Democrats have no one to blame but themselves. Focusing again on the former Alabama senator, Cruz kept the applause coming with, “Let me, on behalf of CPAC, thank Harry Reid… Harry Reid, that you for Attorney General Jeff Sessions,” singling out other Cabinet officials for praise as well.

Cruz also promised that, one way or the other, Senate Republicans would also get Judge Neil Gorsuch confirmed to the Supreme Court.

After Gorsuch is confirmed, there’s already buzz about who conservatives want to see as the next nominee to the High Court. Experts expect two more vacancies, likely for Justices Anthony Kennedy and Ruth Bader Ginsburg, during Trump’s current four-year presidential term.

When talking with top conservative leaders at CPAC, two names keep popping up, neither of whom is a judge. One is former U.S. Solicitor General Paul Clement. The other is Sen. Ted Cruz.

Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.From Reuters:

The U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency said on Friday it will accept proposals next month for the design of a wall to be built near the U.S.-Mexican frontier, a first step in picking vendors for President Donald Trump’s proposed border wall.

In a document on the federal government’s website for business opportunities, the CPB said it would release a request on or about March 6 asking companies for prototype ideas for a wall to be built near the U.S.-Mexican border.

After reviewing the ideas submitted by vendors, the agency will evaluate and select the best designs by March 20, then issue a request for proposals by March 24 in which vendors would be asked to price out the cost of building the proposed wall.

The document says multiple awards for the barrier are expected by mid-April as part of the process, an aggressive schedule for a government construction project.
White House Press secretary Sean Spicer angrily confronted a CNN reporter following a story reporting that the administration pressured the FBI to publicly “knock down” Trump-Russia stories in the media.

The gaggle, which took place Friday morning, was described as a “background briefing” by the White House. It included the White House press pool and was expanded to include a CNN reporter as well as reporters from ABC, NBC, Fox Business and Fox News. CBS was in the pool.


Spicer went on the record to confront CNN in front of their colleagues in the White House during the briefing that occurred in his office.

CNN reporter Joe John (whose byline did not appear on contested story), was told by Spicer that their network was wrong to suggest that the White House put “pressure” on the FBI to publicly challenge the reports on Trump-Russia ties.

Some of the details of Spicer’s comments about the story were included in the White House press pool, but a White House aide that was present in the room detailed the confrontation.

“I know it’s a CNN issue you guys have — but at least get it straight,” an enraged Spicer said to John.

The White House maintains that FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe approached White House chief of staff Reince Priebus to discuss the misleading story in The New York Times, that he described as “bulls**t.” That meeting occurred on February 15, after the New York Times published the story.

Priebus asked McCabe if they would correct the record, which cited sources claiming the existence of an FBI investigation into “repeated contacts” between Trump aides and Russian intelligence.

The CNN report claims that this meeting violated “procedures that limit communications with the FBI on pending investigations.”

All of this was directly pointed out to CNN reporter Joe John during the press gaggle. Spicer repeatedly emphasized that the meeting was about a story in a newspaper, not the ongoing investigation.

The real story, according to White House officials, was that according to the FBI, the New York Times got their initial story wrong. CNN’s reporter was told by Spicer that their network had “buried the lead.”

Spicer reportedly said he was “disgusted” with the way CNN handled the story, calling it “disgraceful.”

Later, Friday afternoon, the White House hosted a gaggle for the press pool in Sean Spicer’s office, and included reporters from One America News, Breitbart News, The Washington Times, and The Washington Examiner.

CNN was not included in the second gaggle, which prompted a protest that they were being “shut out” by Spicer.

“This is an unacceptable development by the Trump White House. Apparently this is how they retaliate when you report facts that don’t like,” a statement from the CNN public relations department read. “We’ll keep reporting regardless.”

Similar exclusions of press outlets took place under the Obama administration, which restricted some press meetings to liberal outlets as reported by The New York Times.
Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton responded to New York Times columnist David Brooks over his claims that curbing mass immigration would cripple the U.S., tweeting that an influx of low-skilled labor hurts the employment prospects of young Americans, minorities, and established immigrants.

Cotton has sponsored a bill cutting annual immigration flows into the U.S. by half, by limiting entry to 500,000 foreign workers each years. It’s a popular position for a wide swath of voters: 54 percent want immigration halved or reduced to zero, including 22 percent who want a total moratorium. That includes 68 percent of Republicans and 45 percent of Democrats who want to see dramatic reductions in migration levels.


The foreign-born population is set to grow more than 700 percent from 1970s levels. Now, it stands at 42.4 million. Unless immigration controls are taken off autopilot, over 78 million foreigners will soon reside in the U.S.

Mass immigration from the Third World is crippling workers in the economy, as Breitbart News reported in July. Every single job created from 2000 to 2014 went to foreign-born workers residing in the U.S.

But Brooks thinks reducing extreme immigration inflows is “the national death wish.”

Waves of low-skilled workers allow natives to take up better jobs, Brooks says. Society stratified between low-skilled serfs and the wealthy benefits everyone: “The essential point is that immigrants don’t take native jobs on any sort of one-to-one basis. They drive economic activity all the way down the river, creating new jobs in some areas and then pushing native workers into more complicated jobs in others. A comprehensive study of non-European Union immigrants into Denmark between 1991 and 2008 found that immigrants did not push down wages, but rather freed natives to do more pleasant work.”

Americans have racked up over one trillion dollars in student loan debt looking to upgrade their skills and get back into the job market. And 41 percent of white, working-class men have given up looking for work in an era of high immigration rates and lowered wages, according to the Economist. That group comprises 23 percent of the U.S. workforce and much of President Donald Trump’s political base. Brooks incorrectly summarizes a National Academy of Sciences study, saying it “found that immigration didn’t drive down most wages, but it had a ‘very small’ and temporary effect on native-born workers without a high school degree.”

That’s not what the report said, Cotton chided Brooks, adding that his bill helps the “forgotten” classes hurt by mass immigration and globalization:

1/9 Hey @nytdavidbrooks, read your column w/ interest & appreciate your taking a close look at my immigration bill. Some points in response. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

2/9 You misquote the Nat'l Acad. of Sciences report. It DOESN'T say that negative wage effect on natives w/o HS diploma is 'very small.' — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

3/9 It says while negative wage effects are 'very small' for all 'natives OVERALL' the effect is more severe for natives w/o a HS diploma. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

4/9 NAS report also shows low-skill immigration harms the employment of native teens, low-skill disadvantaged minorities & prior immigrants. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

5/9 It's these 'forgotten' groups that my immigration bill seeks to help. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

6/9 The powerful & elite reap the benefits of constant influx of low-skill labor while working Americans & recent immigrants bear the costs. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

7/9 Your Houston vignette seems more of an argument for local housing deregulation, not higher levels low-skill immigration. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

8/9 But to extent Houston is relevant, I encourage you to look outside 4th largest city w/ robust oil & tech industry & high median income. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

9/9 Think instead of smaller working-class enclaves where wages have stagnated or dropped over a generation. We don't think of them enough. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 24, 2017

Brooks even takes a shot at those who are troubled by the massive transformation immigration has brought to many American communities. “For the life of me, I can’t figure out why so many Republicans prefer a dying white America to a place like, say, Houston,” he writes. People’s differences bring them together: “The large immigrant population has paradoxically given the city a very strong, very patriotic and cohesive culture, built around being welcoming to newcomers and embracing the future… In 2015 it had the healthiest philanthropic sector in the nation. The city is coming together to solve its pension problems better than just about any other big place.”

Brooks nurses a powerful dislike of Trump and his populist, America-First nationalism. In an earlier column, he called Trump’s election win “horrific”: “Trump’s bigotry, dishonesty and promise-breaking will have to be denounced. We can’t go morally numb. But he needs to be replaced with a program that addresses the problems that fueled his assent.”

“After all, the guy will probably resign or be impeached within a year. The future is closer than you think,” he warned darkly.

Along with Georgia Republican Sen. David Perdue, Cotton introduced the Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment, or the RAISE Act, in Congress earlier in February. The bill would end the outdated chain migration system and allow migrants to only bring elderly parents along with them, provided they won’t go on public assistance.

“There has been a generation’s-long decline in blue collar wages,” Cotton said. “The natural effect of having low-skills and no-skills workers in this country is going to be a tighter labor market that is going to put more upward pressure on wages of working folks.”

“Our immigration system should focus on what is good for American citizens–and if parents and siblings or adult children or their spouses have the skills that they need to succeed in our economy and contribute, then they can come in through other employment-based programs,” he added.
A member of the 1980-1981 Oakland Raiders Super Bowl winning team told Breitbart News at the Conservative Political Action Conference that it is time for African-Americans to reclaim their traditional conservatism.

“Today’s generation has been trained to think differently from my generation. We would stand for the flag in a heartbeat—because we realized the opportunities we had,” said Burgess Owens on Thursday.


Owens was an All-American safety at the University of Miami, who was drafted by the New York Jets in 1973 and played for the Jets until joining the Raiders for their run at Super Bowl XV.

Owens was at CPAC to discuss with people his new book “Liberalism or How to Turn Good Men into Whiners, Weenies and Wimps” and attend a book signing.

“Today’s generation came from BET group—the BET has been talking down our country for the longest time.” Black Entertainment Television is the top cable channel focused on the African-American community.

Today’s young African-Americans have been twisted up by BET, he said.

“They tend to be more racist. They tend to be more un-American,” he said.

“I was the third black American to be recruited by the University of Miami and I remember going down there—my goal was not to fail,” he said.

“That was really what allowed our community to think,” he said. “We didn’t want to leave our families down. We didn’t want to let our race down. We would work as hard as we could, so we would not fail.”

Owens said that when he was coming of age in the late 1960s, there was always a racial consciousness that was trying to break through and disrupt the traditional ways of life.

In those times in his hometown of Tallahassee, Florida, the black community was stronger than most other communities, black or white, he said.

“The community as that time was totally committed to the family,” he said. “We had the highest percentage of men committed to marriage. We had the fastest growing middle-class in the country.”

Conservatism, with its emphasis on work, entrepreneurship, and faith traditions, is a natural fit for African-Americans, but somehow the narrative got switched up.

Owens said he wrote his book because left-wing politics and policies have destroyed thriving black communities, but no one else seemed to want to talk about it.

“Back in 1910, the NAACP, started by 21 white Marxist, socialist, atheist Democrats, began to intertwine the thought of liberalism into my community,” he said. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is the most prominent of the civil rights organizations.

“We started to pull away from the pillars that always made our country great and towards being and feeling like victims,” he said.

“They taught our race that the real value was in being with the white race, instead of what we were doing at the time,” the father of six said.

“I would say to a young African-American man: Recognize who you are, let’s man-up. Take the rolls you are supposed to take. Take care of your family. Respect women—big time—and we will be a great country again,” he said.

His message to white Americans: “Don’t apologize anymore for who they are. We have a great society with great ancestors, who did their best.”
On Thursday healthcare experts discussed the prescription for Obamacare at CPAC.

Phillip Klein, the managing editor of the Washington Examiner, moderated the discussion, featuring Dale Bellis of Liberty Healthshare, Rep. Mike Burgess (R-TX), Scott Flanders of eHealth, and Grace Marie Turner of the Galen Institute.


Klein asked Congressman Burgess about repealing and replacing Obamacare. Burgess said, “A year ago Congress passed reconciliation, and it demonstrated that if we put the right bill in the House and if we can get the right president in we could repeal large pieces of the Affordable Care Act. I want you to tell me what you want for Obamacare repeal, and I will fight for you. Health Secretary Tom Price will get rid of many parts of Obamacare through his administration.”

Klein asked Burgess about when the Obamacare repeal package gets introduced. Burgess said, “Soon.”

Congressman Burgess added that, “The president is coming to a joint session of Congress soon. Hopefully, he will give Congress direction on where he stands.”

The Texas congressman said that reconciliation is, “The opening salvo for taking Obamacare out. Just eliminating the individual mandate would do a world of good. That is the most essential thing we can do.”

Phillip Klein turned to Grace Marie Turner to ask about the future of health care reform. She said, “This is a once in a generation chance to reform health care. Senator Schumer wants to see Obamacare repeal fail. If it fails, then the people will blame Republicans.”

Klein asked the panel, “Will Congress eliminate Obamacare by the next CPAC?”

All said yes, but Burgess added, “If reconciliation works and we pass Obamacare repeal, yes.”
The U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a lower court’s injunction, reinstating Texas’ illegal alien harboring law. The three-judge panel poured out the plaintiff’s claim that renting houses or providing social services would put them at risk of prosecution.

“Because there is no reasonable interpretation by which merely renting housing or providing social services to an illegal alien constitutes ‘harboring…that person from detection,’ we reverse the injunction,” U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry E. Smith wrote in the opinion.


The appellate court ruled the plaintiffs, two Texas landlords, did not have standing because they were unable to show how the law put them at risk of prosecution, Courthouse News Service reported.

Breitbart Texas’ Lana Shadwick reported in April 2016 that a federal district court judge issued a temporary restraining order against the state from enforcing the anti-harboring provisions of Texas House Bill 11. Shadwick wrote:

The federal complaint states that “In his role as Executive Director of RAICES, Plaintiff Ryan provides shelter to immigrant women and children who are not authorized to be present in the U.S. and lack lawful immigration status. Many of the immigrant women and children sheltered by Plaintiff Ryan are asylum-seekers from East Africa and Central America who entered the U.S. without authorization and are in federal removal proceedings.” The plaintiffs brought the lawsuit on January 24 and sued Texas Governor Greg Abbott, the Director of the Texas Department of Public Safety Steven C. McCraw, and members of the Texas Public Safety Commission. The harboring provisions are part of a $800 million border security effort by the Texas Governor and the Texas legislature. Breitbart Texas attended the ceremony when Abbott signed into law the toughest and most comprehensive border security plan of any state in the United States of America. The Governor noted that the Texas-Mexico border can be a gateway to crimes committed in other parts of the U.S. As reported by Breitbart Texas, the legislative package provided historic levels of funding to secure the border, established a child sex trafficking prevention unit, strengthened penalties for human traffickers, increased funding for the border protection unit, and seeks reimbursement from the federal government for Texas funds spent on border issues. The Governor declared the plan a legislative priority, and one of his emergency legislative items during his [2015] State of the State address.

Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton reacted to the court’s decision, saying, “Today’s ruling by the 5th Circuit will allow the state to fight the smuggling of humans and illegal contraband by transnational gangs and perpetrators of organized crime, not just on the border, but throughout Texas.”

The Texas AG explained the court adopted his office’s position that “Because there is no reasonable interpretation by which merely renting housing or providing social services to an illegal alien constitutes ‘harboring…that person from detection.’”

The law is intended to provide law enforcement and prosecutors an additional tool in fighting human smuggling and human trafficking. It makes the harboring of an illegal alien a third-degree felony, punishable by a two-ten year prison sentence and a fine of up to 10,000. It also adds a provision increasing the penalties and imposing a second-degree felony level if the alien is a minor, or if the harboring creates the possibility of serious bodily injury or death, Breitbart Texas reported. It created a first-degree felony crime for a situation where the person suffers sexual assault during the harboring, or the victim experiences serious bodily injury or death.

Texas Governor Greg Abbott called the initial ruling by the lower court, “absurd.”

Abbott’s press secretary John Wittman said in an email to Reuters that Abbot “was proud to sign HB 11 into law to crack down on human smuggling and increase penalties for perpetrators of these horrific crimes. He applauds today’s decision.”

Attorneys for the landlords said their clients were also pleased with the ruling. They stated the decision clarifies that the State cannot prosecute their clients for renting property or providing social services to illegal immigrants.

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.
Donald Trump’s daughter, Ivanka Trump, is pushing her father and the new White House administration to take legislative action on the issue of human trafficking, according to Axios.

On Thursday afternoon, Donald Trump held a listening session on the issue, to greater understand the problem of women and girls who are trafficked into America, and then sexually exploited for profit.


However, the issue was fast-tracked onto the agenda by Ivanka Trump, alongside Dina Powell, the White House senior counselor for economic initiatives. According to a source close to Axios, “Ivanka recommended the meeting to the president and he immediately agreed, given what a horrible issue it is in the U.S. and internationally.”

The meeting, which took place at 14:30 in the Roosevelt room, was attended by both Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, as well as longtime advocates on the issue, such as Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Bob Corker (R-TN.)

The issue of human trafficking is a priority of Ivanka Trump, who has pledged to advise her father on women’s issues. One of the charities attending the meeting, Tech Innovation to Fight Child Sexual Exploitation, was co-founded by her husband Jared Kushner.

Last week, Ivanka tweeted a photo with her father and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, claiming that they had a “great discussion about women having a seat at the table.”

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com
Schools around the country have decided to take a stand against President Trump’s crackdown on illegal immigration.

The Chicago Public School District have told principals in the state to stop immigration agents from entering schools without a criminal warrant, the Daily Mail reported.


Chicago Public Schools, the third-largest school district in the nation, took one of the boldest stances against Trump’s immigration policies out of the school districts in the country that have announced measures to protect students who are living in the United States illegally.

“To be very clear, CPS does not provide assistance to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the enforcement of federal civil immigration law,” Janice Jackson, chief education officer of the Chicago Public Schools, wrote in a message to Chicago principals Tuesday.

Other schools in Denver, Colorado, and Santa Fe, New Mexico, have taken similar stances on allowing immigration agents into the classroom.

Santa Fe’s school district reaffirmed itself as a “sanctuary school district,” meaning that they will take steps to protect student privacy and refuse entry to immigration agents unless there is “lawful” contact with students, CNN reported.

“We will only allow lawful ICE contact with our students, which includes a properly executed warrant,” Santa Fe Public Schools Superintendent Veronica Garcia said in a statement.

Denver Public Schools passed a resolution last week saying that immigration agents will not be granted access to students unless an official produces a search warrant issued by a judge, CNN reported.

“The resolution stresses Denver Public Schools will do everything in our lawful power to protect our students’ confidential information and ensure that our students’ learning environments are not disrupted by immigration enforcement activity,” Superintendent Tom Boasberg wrote on the school system’s website.
Former Speaker John Boehner said on Thursday that Republicans are unlikely to pass an Obamacare repeal and replace package.

Politico reports that Boehner, who resigned from Congress in 2015, told a healthcare conference in Orlando, Florida, that a repeal and replace plan is just “happy talk.” He insisted that any changes to Obamacare would likely be cosmetic.


Boehner said, “[Congressional Republicans will] fix Obamacare, and I shouldn’t have called it repeal-and-replace because that’s not what’s going to happen.”

“They’re basically going to fix the flaws and put a more conservative box around it,” he added.

Congressional Republicans plan work to work on an Obamacare repeal package as early as next week. Speaker Ryan hopes to undo much of Obamacare through budgetary reconciliation and a subsequent replacement bill.

However, John Boehner isn’t so sure. Noting that in his 25 years in Congress Republicans never could agree on a healthcare proposal, Boehner said, “All this happy talk that went on in November and December and January about repeal, repeal, repeal … I started laughing, because if you pass repeal without replace, first, anything that happens is your fault. You broke it.”

Boehner continued, “And secondly, as I told some of the Republican leaders when they asked, I said, if you pass repeal without replace you’ll never pass replace, because they will never ever agree on what the bill should be. Perfect always becomes the enemy of the good.”

He concluded, “Most of the Affordable Care Act, in the framework, is going to stay there: coverage for kids up to age 26, covering those with preexisting conditions. All of that’s going to be there. Subsidies for those who can’t afford it, who aren’t on Medicaid, who I call the working poor, subsidies for them will be there.”
Leaked tapes of CNN employees released by Project Veritas this morning reveal CNN editors displaying their leftist bias. Editors can be heard claiming there is “no debate” on climate change while calling Fox News “unbearable.”

Joe Sterling, who was then News Desk Editor for CNN’s online venue “The Wire” was recorded dismissing any skepticism on the climate change issue, and comparing it to creationism.


“That issue, climate change, I mean science is pretty much on board and there are a few dissenters. There’s no debate. It’s like, you know, born-agains saying there’s a debate over, you know creationism, and all that stuff. There is no debate.”

The tapes reveal more bias from then-CNN Assignment Desk Editor Nicky Robinson, who can be heard attacking conservative-leaning channel Fox News.

“Fox News, I think Fox News is unbearable. It’s horrible,” Robinson can be heard saying.

Over 119 hours of raw audio from inside CNN has been released by Project Veritas, with over 100 more hours yet to be released. The audio was recorded in 2009 by an anonymous whistleblower inside CNN’s Atlanta headquarters, identified only as “Miss X.”

“We’ve got 100 million people out there who’ve got no-one to speak for them” said Project Veritas founder James O’Keefe at a press conference announcing the leaks. “Project Veritas is determined to expose malfeasance, corruption, and wrongdoing.”

“We’ve already have two whistleblowers come forward since we announced these tapes. People are coming to us now, on the inside.”

In a comment to Breitbart Tech, O’Keefe spoke of his concern at the growing leftist bias of social media companies, and warned them that Project Veritas would investigate them too.

“Yes we know about it, we’re concerned about it, we’re fighting it” said O’Keefe, responding to our question about social media bias.

“[CNN Leaks] is the first in a long effort to target and expose abuse within the media, and that includes social media.

Who knows? Maybe we have someone inside with a camera right now, recording everything.”

You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to abokhari@breitbart.com.
Former UN ambassador John Bolton discussed the Trump administration’s top foreign policy objectives with SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Friday’s Breitbart News Daily, emphasizing that radical Islam and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction through unstable regimes like North Korea need to be the priorities for the Trump administration.

“If anyone had any doubt about how crazy the regime is in North Korea,” said Bolton, “we’ve seen the assassination of the president’s half-brother in Malaysia, police reporting this morning that he was apparently killed with VX nerve agent – cousin to Sarin gas, it’s a chemical weapon.”


Continued Bolton, “This is an indication of the irrationality and therefore the danger of the North Korean regime. The longer-term threats are how to deal with china and how to deal with Russia.”

Bolton spoke extensively about the complicated relationship between China and North Korea and how best to manage that aspect of America’s foreign policy in the Trump era.

Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern.

LISTEN:
The New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza writes that the populist nationalist worldview of Donald Trump’s White House chief strategist Steve Bannon has finally “conquered” the American Conservative Union’s annual CPAC conference.

As Lizza notes, the issues that animate Bannon’s worldview and propelled Trump to victory were left off the CPAC agenda in the 2013 conference following Mitt Romney’s failed presidential campaign. That year, Bannon, then the executive chairman of Breitbart News, organized an “Uninvited” panel of speakers to discuss such pressing topics as illegal immigration, crony capitalism, and radical Islam.


From The New Yorker:

The Bannon-Priebus appearance was a reminder of how quickly Bannon’s view of conservatism came to defeat Priebus’s. Back in March, 2013, Bannon was something of an outcast at CPAC. In the wake of Mitt Romney’s loss in the 2012 Presidential election, conservatives were trying to emphasize their movement’s diversity and tolerance. The prevailing takeaway from the election was that the right had grown too old, too white, and too intolerant—and so CPAC, which often serves as an incubator for ideas emerging on the far right, needed to downplay the fringes of the movement.

…

Bannon, who was the head of Breitbart News, roamed the halls as a disgruntled and dishevelled fringe player. Before the conference, he had scanned the schedule and complained that CPAC’s organizers had cast out the voices representing what he viewed as the real issues on the right: the threat from Islam, illegal immigration, and corporate America’s influence on politics.

He organized an evening of counterprograming to highlight those issues, which he called the Uninvited. Even at the most conservative gathering in America, Bannon liked to play the role of aggrieved outsider.

On the CPAC sidelines, Bannon described his alternative lineup to an interviewer: “A former Attorney General from the Bush Administration talking about jihad and the élites’ inability to recognize it. Peter Schweitzer talking about crony capitalism. Pam Geller, Robert Spencer, Frank Gaffney, Nina Shea talking about the global persecution of Christians. These are huge topics. Illegal immigration. These are huge issues. They have to be vetted.”

Read the rest here.
President Donald Trump promised to appoint judges to all levels of the federal bench who will faithfully follow the law according to its original meaning, including at the Supreme Court.

Across the political spectrum, from the establishment to the grassroots, Texas Republicans are rallying to a slate of legal stars to help Trump keep that promise and set an example for the nation.


Texas is in the jurisdiction of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, along with Louisiana and Mississippi. The Fifth Circuit is comprised of 17 judicial seats, three of which are currently vacant. For two of those three seats, the president traditionally nominates someone from the Lone Star State.

A recurring issue in the Republican Party is the unremitting tension between the GOP base and the GOP establishment. Not this time in Texas, however.

Republicans are flocking to the banner of several hopefuls to fill those seats, and in doing so may sketch a template for the rest of the nation. Over 100 federal judicial seats nationwide are currently vacant, including over a dozen on the U.S. courts of appeals.

Judges on the federal district courts are essentially chosen by the home-state senators of that district, especially when those senators are of the same party as the president. They make recommendations to the White House, where the recommended names are almost always adopted by the president, so long as they first pass a thorough vetting process involving the Office of Legal Policy at the U.S. Department of Justice and the White House Counsel’s Office.

For the courts of appeals, home-state senators make recommendations, though the president has the final say. In Texas, two of the most prominent senators in the nation—Majority Whip John Cornyn and conservative darling Ted Cruz—have a committee that interviews and evaluates potential judges for Cornyn and Cruz to recommend to President Trump. They are considering six names.

Cornyn is a former justice on the Texas Supreme Court and the former attorney general of the Lone Star State. Cruz is one of the most renowned constitutional lawyers in America, having clerked for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the U.S. Supreme Court, served as Texas solicitor general, and won several historic cases before the nation’s highest court.

Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton is a favorite among conservatives, having taken on Barack Obama in lawsuits covering the gamut of hot-button issues, from immigration, to transgender issues, to Planned Parenthood, to voter ID.

Speaking of the current vacancies on the federal bench, Paxton exclusively tells Breitbart News, “No one has more at stake in how we fill these Fifth Circuit vacancies than the men and women who defend the State of Texas in court every single day at the Texas Attorney General’s Office.”

“I was delighted to see the list of six names the senators are considering, because it includes my top choices for jurists who understand the legal issues we face,” Paxton continued. “Judge Reed O’Connor is a nationally respected federal judge who has a proven track record. Likewise, Justice Don Willett and Jim Ho are among our very best legal talents committed to conservative principles.”

O’Connor is currently a district judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Willet is currently a justice on the Texas Supreme Court. And Ho is a partner at the global powerhouse law firm Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, a former law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas on the U.S. Supreme Court, and the former solicitor general of Texas.

Breitbart News also spoke with another leading Texas Republican who insisted on speaking anonymously, because he personally knows each of the six candidates for the federal appellate bench and could not afford to show favorites.

“O’Connor is incredible—a great judge who is exactly what the country needs,” he began. “But even more so then O’Connor, I am ecstatic by the prospect of Jim Ho on the Fifth Circuit. He’s a man of incredible intellect, principle, and devotion to the Constitution—exactly the sort that President Trump promised to nominate, and that will make the president and the nation proud.”

“Jim Ho is my number-one pick,” he added, then went on to praise several of the other contenders as well.

President Trump will make his final selections in the coming months on seats for the Fifth Circuit and other federal courts of appeals, even as the U.S. Senate considers his nomination of Neil Gorsuch to take the seat of Antonin Scalia on the U.S. Supreme Court.

Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.Jorge Ramos: America Is ‘Our Country, Not Theirs’—‘And We Are Not Going to Leave’
The left-leaning Washington Post has introduced a new slogan in the age of President Donald Trump: “Democracy Dies in Darkness.”

The slogan, which was coined by the newspaper’s former editor Bob Woodward, is now center stage on the site’s homepage.


In an interview with CNN’s Brian Stelter, the paper’s spokesperson, Kris Coratti, said that the slogan was a “good, concise value statement that conveys who we are to the many millions of readers who have come to us for the first time over the last year.”

Coratti added that although it is currently only present on The Washington Post‘s website, it will soon be spreading to other platforms across the publication.

“We started with our newest readers on Snapchat, and plan to roll it out on our other platforms in the coming weeks,” Coratti continued.

However, the slogan has also been met with derision by other members of the press.

excited to announce our new HuffPost slogan: The Night is Dark and Full of Terrors — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) February 22, 2017

I thought people were joking about this new WP motto: "democracy dies in darkness." They were not. I shouldn't be laughing so hard. — Mollie (@MZHemingway) February 22, 2017

The newspaper, which is owned by Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, was vehemently opposed to Donald Trump’s candidacy in the 2016 presidential election. As part of the effort to prevent Trump from winning, Bezos reportedly hired a team of 20 investigative journalists to dig into “every phase” of Donald Trump’s personal life and professional career.

On Wednesday, the New York Times also unveiled a new marketing campaign entitled “The Truth,” to fight Donald Trump, suggesting that the paper will only publish truthful journalism whilst Trump and the new administration continue to propagate lies.

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Deputy White House chief of staff Katie Walsh rocketed to the top and is now — at just 32 years old — the woman who holds down the fort in the White House. Alongside other strong women on President Donald J. Trump’s team, like director of strategic communications, Hope Hicks, or counselor to the president, KellyAnne Conway, Walsh is instrumental in making the White House function.

She keeps the president’s schedule and merges the intertwining, ambitious work that the triumvirate underneath President Trump — White House chief of staff Reince Priebus; White House chief strategist and former Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon; and Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser to the president — are doing to maximize potential inside the building.


“As you know, we’ve got a lot of senior folks in the White House who have a great ability to help push the president’s agenda and message and that’s Reince Priebus, Steve Bannon, Jared Kushner, KellyAnne Conway, and others, but there is a logistical piece of that that has to get implemented and so I try and help with that,” Walsh said in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News on Wednesday evening:

So I try and do what I can to make sure the right hand is talking to the left hand and everyone knows what everyone is doing, and there is a cohesive operation or effort to make sure, whatever we’re doing, that nothing happens in a silo if you will. So even if Reince is with the president working on something, and Jared is working on an issue related to trade, and Steve is working on an issue related to immigration or something, we try and make sure everyone is still on the same page and working together and moving together as fast as we can.

Walsh’s job is making sure that the key items President Trump and his inner team want to handle get on the schedule and that his time — and the time of the key people around him — is used to the fullest extent possible. She’s a core part of the latest iteration of a Trump machine, streamlining the potential of the president and his inner circle.

“I think the schedule is never a sexy thing to talk about but at the end of the day the most valuable time we have is the president’s time,” Walsh told Breitbart News:

And so we’re committed to moving his agenda forward, and we need to make sure we are using his time in the most strategic way possible. And so I think I serve as a funnel from some other senior staff. So when folks are saying, “we want to push this message” or “we’d like to get these folks in to meet with the president to work on this issue,” it’s my job to take those things, put them in some kind of organizational order, and take them to Steve and Reince and say “these are our recommendations, how would you like to move forward?” Obviously, it’s a ton of conversations at senior levels with senior staff, but at the end of the day those three gentlemen [Kushner, Bannon, and Priebus] are going to make the decisions, so they need to be given context and details and a full understanding and picture of what’s going on so they can make decisions.

Walsh, who served as the chief of staff of the Republican National Committee under Priebus in the 2016 cycle and previously as the finance director at the RNC said her time at the party committee — and specifically operating with a metrics-focused, results-driven systematic process based on scientific exact modeling — prepared her for the job in the White House.

“I think one of the reasons Reince looked at me to be a possible candidate for his chief of staff is because as finance director, finance is always metrics,” Walsh said:

Every 30 days, I would know if I was succeeding or failing. So many other departments in a political committee don’t have those metrics, and we have not forced them, other than on an election day, to provide metrics of what they were working towards in the 22 months leading up to an election of whether we’re doing what we needed to do. So we took a major focus of that. Every single thing that was brought to my desk was “how did this improve the voter file?” I saw my mission as really to learn as much as I could about every single voter so that we could use our voter score system to deliver to the candidate and to President Trump an accurate appearance of the electorate at any given point — and where they felt on messaging. We worked really, really hard to acquire as much data as we could, whether that be consumer data, whether that be through outreach needed over the last couple cycles online, on the ground, on the phone, et cetera. So, when President Trump — candidate Trump at the time — became the nominee, we sat down and said, “we have the best voter file out there, we have more information than anybody else and we’re committed to making sure that we take everything we have and making sure that you can use every single piece of it to hone your message and help decide where to go travel.” That takes a lot of kind of structural organization to coordinate political, digital, data, et cetera, to make sure every decision we make gets back on the voter file. To make sure every time someone emails, someone clicks on the donate page, every time we knock on the door, it’s all got to go back in that file. So I think, similar to what I did at the RNC in trying to get teamwork together towards one goal, I think that’s something I try and really do here. There are a lot of folks that have a lot of really good priorities that are all in line with the president’s agenda, but at the end of the day, we all need to be on the same page and all working toward the same goal at the same time or it’s hard to get something done.

Bannon, who left Breitbart News in August to serve as CEO of the Trump campaign, sings Walsh’s praises.

“Katie was an integral part of our campaign post convention,” Bannon said in an emailed statement. “She was in New York day in and day out working hand and glove with the campaign to execute a GOTV effort on our behalf unlike anything our Party has ever seen. Her partnership was invaluable. Every day since election day Katie has worked tirelessly to help enact the President’s agenda. She is essential in ensuring things get done.”

Walsh said the president is working at an extraordinarily high energy pace and that she’s most impressed after getting to know him more that he can broach a wide array of issues with almost anyone.

“I’ve never worked for someone with his energy level… I will say that working for Reince was a training program for this because Reince’s energy level is astronomically high as well, but one of the amazing things I’ve noticed about President Trump, as I’ve spent some time with him and gotten to know him a little bit better, is just his breadth of knowledge on a whole array of issues,” Walsh said. “He can talk to a coal miner from West Virginia, he can talk to a manufacturer in Michigan at a car plant, he can talk to someone at Boeing about a jetliner. He’s just got a huge, huge, huge range of knowledge on these issues. I’m always amazed at how engaged he is on these issues. He isn’t a president that just sits back and lets his staff do all the legwork for him.” She added, “He works as hard as anyone as I’ve ever seen in public office, even down to minutia and details, to ensure he’s doing everything he promised to the American people.”

Walsh is someone who, again at 32 years old in her position, skyrocketed to the top of Washington politics quickly — and someone who somewhat stumbled into it with a couple of lucky breaks after her rise from humble beginnings in America’s oft-forgotten-in-this-town Midwest.

“I am from St. Louis, Missouri, and my family was very active in state politics growing up, so it was kind of a natural interest of mine,” she told Breitbart News. “The first campaign I ever worked on I had interned on [John] Ashcroft’s 2000 Senate race, which I’m not sure if you remember was a rather interesting race at the end of the day. So following that — I was in high school when I did that — and then the next campaign I did was I worked on Matt Blunt’s ’04 gubernatorial in Missouri, and I ended taking a semester off school to be a field representative for him in St. Charles and St. Louis.”

She went to George Washington University here in D.C. for college, and when she graduated, she went to work for John Ashcroft’s firm.

“When I graduated from school at GW, I was working for General Ashcroft at the Ashcroft Group, which is a firm he started after he left the Attorney General’s office and the ’08 election was coming up and I actually went to go work for Fred Thompson,” Walsh told Breitbart News:

It was June of ’07 when the sort of “Draft Fred” run, and it was a great opportunity for me because I was 22, and one of the greats, David Ayers, who was Ashcroft’s campaign manager and chief of staff at DOJ gave me some great advice which is: “When you’re 22 years old, you don’t want to work on a big campaign. You want to work on a smaller campaign because you’ll get much better experience.” He was right. And so I went and worked on Sen. Thompson’s campaign and I started out as the assistant to the finance director, and I ended as a regional finance director doing events with the senator, and traveling around with him, and putting together a majority of a regional finance operation for him which was great. Obviously, the Senator dropped out of the race, and I was going to go home and work for Matt’s reelect, and I actually got a call from the governor — the irony of this was it was the same day Fred dropped out — saying he was not going to run for reelection. So I decided I didn’t want to leave D.C. and called a couple mentors of mine and asked “what would you advise me to do?” And a couple folks opened some doors for me on the McCain campaign. McCain was looking like the presumptive nominee at the time and I became a regional finance director for McCain at 23 or 24 years old which was like a huge, huge opportunity for me.

Her boss from that campaign was hired by the National Republican Senatorial Committee (NRSC) as finance director and brought Walsh on board as her deputy for the 2010 and 2012 cycles. “Obviously we fell short [of delivering the majority in 2010 and 2012], but we netted five seats,” Walsh said, adding that the senators produced in 2010 and 2012 have gone on to become some of the strongest Republicans in history.

“I consider it a great opportunity to work with what I consider one of the best recruiting classes we have had in a long time — that’s Roy Blunt, Rob Portman, Kelly Ayotte, Marco Rubio, really some huge core talent in the Republican Party,” Walsh said. Other senators from that 2010 class include Rand Paul of Kentucky and Mike Lee of Utah and two years later produced Ted Cruz of Texas among others.

“It was a great opportunity to work with them and so following that I was actually going to open up, I was going to do some finance work and help Sen. Cornyn with his reelect, but Angela Meyers from the RNC called and said, “can you come meet with Reince about being his finance director?’” Walsh continued. “So I came in and met with Reince and got hired as his finance director and traveled around with him for two years, and as you know, he’s like a prolific fundraiser. So we spent a lot of time together and as the 2016 cycle approached he started talking to me about being his chief of staff. I will always be grateful to Reince because it is not a normal path to management from finance. There aren’t many women or finance folks that end up being in management of a committee.”

She said her time growing up in Missouri makes her a better person and keeps her grounded so she doesn’t get sucked into the swamp culture of Washington, D.C.

“Absolutely,” Walsh said when asked if being from outside politics in middle America helps her understand why Trump won and who sent him to the Oval Office.

“If you were in my office right now, you’d see pictures around of Missouri,” Walsh said:

I mean, I try and make sure that even though I’ve been in D.C. a little bit I don’t forget that we’re not working for the folks that live around here. We’re working for the folks that are in St. Louis, that are in Cincinnati, that are in Toledo, that have had a really hard time the last eight years. Their jobs have gone away. They wanted to send someone to Washington that wasn’t going to get bogged down in nonsense. I think they’ve gotten that in the last 30 days. The president has done exactly what he said he’s going to do. I love walking around D.C. the little bit I’m out of the White House these days and people ask, “what do you think of the president so far?” And I say, “I think he’s done exactly what he told the American people he was going to do.” And so I think when you talk to people outside the beltway, people will tell you that.

While several long political and policy battles loom over the next several years in the White House, Walsh is confident that President Trump and his team will succeed in delivering on the promises he made to the American people in the 2016 campaign by the end of his term in the White House. She even said that reporters are privately singing the praises of the Trump White House.

“I think if we look back at the last 30 days, and we magnify that out to the next four years, I feel pretty good about getting a lot done,” Walsh said. “The president is going to use the support he has from the 306 electoral votes — he won states that have never been won before, and he’s not going to forget the fact that those voters are counting on him to deliver the things that you mentioned: to repeal and replace Obamacare, to build a wall and fix our immigration system, to reform and balance the budget. Those are big things, and quite frankly, it’s going to take cooperation from the hill as well.”

“So we’re working as fast as we can, and we’re working hand in glove with Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell to get things done,” Walsh continued. “Obviously, legislative calendars are never our friends in these situations. But, anecdotally, even from press inside the White House, they’ve said they’ve never seen this level of activity inside the White House. So what I can say is while we don’t control everything, the parts of this we do control — which is how engaged the president is, how he can use his influence, his megaphone, his support from the American people to push forward to make sure that we’re not wasting any time — we’re moving as fast as we can and we’re going to do that 24 hours a day.”
Another poll shows a majority of voters support President Donald Trump’s executive order curbing travelers from seven terror-exporting countries, and shows that a majority want fewer refugees imported into American communities overall.

Pollsters found that 51 percent of respondents want the U.S. to accept fewer refugees than the 100,000 per year President Barack Obama wanted to import. Trump’s new White House plan trims that number to 50,000 per year.


Fifty-three percent of respondents also support the Trump’s Executive Order banning all refugee resettlement from Syria and freezing refugee resettlement for 120 days, according to the poll, which was conducted for the Harvard Center for American Political Studies by the Harris Poll company. The company is co-managed by Democratic pollster Mark Penn. Forty-seven percent of respondents oppose the new curbs, according to Harris, which did not release details showing the percentage of people who strong support or oppose the curbs.

Forty-seven percent of respondents oppose the new curbs on refugee inflow, according to Harris, which did not release details about the percentage of people who strong support or oppose the curbs. In many polls, the percentage of people who strongly support large-scale immigration is below 20 percent.

A regional judge’s order halting President Trump’s refugee resettlement freeze on Feb. 3 did not affect Trump’s halving of total refugee resettlement numbers. It did, however, lead to a rush of refugees from five of the seven unstable, terror-exporting countries into the U.S. Thanks in part to one regional judge, 60.1 percent of refugees arriving since the ruling are from Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Syria, and Sudan. Over half, or 55 percent, of the 2,576 refugee arrivals are Muslims, including 99.6 percent of Syrian refugees.

The half-million refugees imported since 2009 will cost taxpayers $4.1 billion in FY2017 alone. As Breitbart News previously reported: “$4.1 billion can buy 10,677 new homes for $384,000 each, which is the average price of a new home sold in the United States in December 2016. Or it could buy 170,124 new autos for $24,100 each, which is the manufacturer’s suggested retail price for a 2017 Chevrolet Malibu.”

A total and complete shutdown of all refugee resettlement would save billions, but most of the refugees already living in the U.S. are an economic weight because they are only capable of low-skilled work. They will continue to cost more in welfare and aid than they generate in taxes, so costing American taxpayers at least $3 billion every year. These costs do not include any costs racked up in the U.S. criminal justice system when refugees commit crimes and plot terrorism.

Trump’s popular refugee resettlement freeze has broad support. A Feb. 8 Morning Consult poll found 55 percent of voters supported Trump’s executive order, including 82 percent of Republicans.

Another McLaughlin & Associates poll release Feb. 8 found 57 percent support for a halt of refugee settlement to implement better screening procedures.

A Rasmussen Reports poll released on Feb. 2 found 52 percent of voters favored a freeze on all refugee resettlement until the government could better screen out terrorists, including 57 percent of young voters.
“A group serving as a central hub of information for congressional town halls was founded by a former Hillary Clinton campaign staffer,” the Free Beacon reports.

The parent company of that group “is located at the same address as an organization funded by liberal billionaire George Soros,” the Free Beacon notes:


Jimmy Dahman, a former Hillary Clinton campaign field organizer in Iowa, is the founder of The Town Hall Project, which describes itself as “a volunteer-powered, grassroots effort that empowers constituents across the country to have face-to-face conversations with their elected representatives.”

We are campaign veterans and first time volunteers. We come from a diversity of backgrounds and live across the country. We share progressive values and believe strongly in civic engagement. We research every district and state for public events with Members of Congress. Then we share our findings far and wide to promote participation in the democratic process and make it as accessible as possible for everyone. We have a team of organizers that works with local groups on the ground to coordinate efforts and encourage citizens to amplify their voices.

His Facebook page lists the youthful Dahman’s current position as Deputy Organizing Director at Ohio Together, and former positions as Regional Organizing Director at Hillary for America and Organizer (Party) at Hillary for Iowa.

On April 27, 2015, Dahman shared this message on Facebook with a group called the Benton County (Iowa) Young Democrats:

Hey everyone! My name is Jimmy and I am the organizer here in Benton County for Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Please join our group posted below if you are interested in discussion about the campaign. Also, feel free to reach out to me directly if you want to learn more or get involved!

On its website, The Town Hall Project recommends The Indivisible Guide, which is subtitled “a practical guide for resisting the Trump Agenda.”

“Former congressional staffers reveal best practices for making Congress listen” say this about the guide they produced:

When we put the Indivisible Guide online as a poorly formatted, typo-filled Google Doc, we never imagined how far and fast it would spread. Since December, the guide has been downloaded over a million times. More than 4,500 local groups have signed up to resist the Trump agenda in nearly every congressional district in the country. What’s more, you all are putting the guide into action—showing up en masse to congressional district offices and events, and flooding the congressional phone lines. You’re resisting—and it’s working. . . We now have over seventy (70!) volunteers working early mornings, late nights, weekends, and sick days on everything that you see the Indivisible Guide team do—email responses, congressional updates, the group directory, the website, our social media, and a bunch more. It’s been an amazing labor of love by a stellar group of, yeah we’ll say it, patriots. But we want to do more. As we form a nonprofit*, we want to make something clear: we’re not the leaders of this movement. The last few weeks have made it abundantly clear that local groups are taking ownership of the resistance to Trump’s agenda themselves. You all are the leaders—we’re just here to help…

The guide’s website is signed “In solidarity, Ezra Levin, President of the Board, Leah Greenberg, Vice President of the Board, Angel Padilla, Secretary of the Board, Sarah Dohl, Board Member, and Matt Traldi, Treasurer of the Board.

“Democrats have insisted that recent town hall outbursts against Republican politicians occurred organically, likening them to the Tea Party, while President Donald Trump yesterday tweeted that the “so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous occasions, planned out by liberal activists. Sad!” the Free Beacon reports.

But the Free Beacon notes:

Dahman’s group is closely involved with MoveOn.org, a major progressive activist group that recently launched a website, called ResistanceRecess.com, to encourage activists to attend town hall events. The Town Hall Project’s parent company is The Action Network, which was involved in demonstrations against Walmart and the protests in Ferguson. The Action Network’s board of directors includes Mark Fleischman, a former vice president of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU); Brian Young, who worked on campaigns for Howard Dean and John Kerry; Jeffrey Dugas, who worked for John Podesta’s Center for American Progress and Elizabeth Warren’s 2012 Senate campaign; and Rich Clayton, who worked for the SEIU and the shareholder activism arm of Change to Win, a labor group that describes itself as a “strategic organizing center.”

The connections to big liberal money from this supposedly “organic” group are quite strong.

“The Action Network is located at the same Washington, D.C., address as United We Dream, the “largest immigrant youth-led organization in the nation.” United We Dream has received funding from liberal billionaire George Soros. It began organizing “sanctuary campus” anti-Trump protests shortly after the election,” the Free Beacon reports.
One week after President Donald Trump fulfilled a campaign promise by curbing the arrival of refugees from several Muslim-majority countries, a senior bureaucrat at the Department of Homeland Security countermanded his presidential directive.

The acting director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services of Homeland Security, Lori Scialabba, sent out a February 2 memo directing her employees to continue processing documents for refugees from the countries named by Donald Trump. The memo was leaked to The Intercept website and was made public on Document Cloud.


USCIS Guidance Concerning Executive Order On by Breitbart News on Scribd

According to The Intercept:

LESS THAN ONE week after senior leadership at the Department of Homeland Security issued a policy guidance that threatened to bring much of the government’s asylum and refugee work to a grinding halt, a new directive issued to employees appears to reverse key elements of the procedures U.S. immigration officials are expected to follow… According to an internal memo issued Thursday by Lori Scialabba, the acting director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the portion of Trump’s controversial ban pertaining to the issuance of visas and other benefits to immigrants from the targeted countries “does not affect USCIS adjudication of applications and petitions filed for or on behalf of individuals in the United States regardless of their country or nationality.” The new memo, obtained by The Intercept, stands in direct contradiction to the earlier DHS guidance, which effectively blocked U.S. immigration officials from issuing decisions in any adjustment of status cases for nationals of the banned countries — including applications for permanent residency and naturalization by individuals already in the United States.

Scialabba’s actions spotlight the need for Trump to nominate his top appointees so they can clean house in the many agencies that they were elected to oversee.

Trump nominated General John Kelly as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and he was confirmed January 20, but much of the implementation of the department’s policies is still controlled by holdover bureaucrats, such as Scialabba. Until they are removed, sources say, the Department of Homeland Security will not come close to implementing President Trump’s agenda, even with Kelly at the top of the organization.

“It normally takes a president more than a year to get the lion’s share of his appointees in place, leaving the management of agencies and departments in the hands of career employees who are not in position to make critical and long-term decisions,” Max Steir reported at Bloomberg Views.

Sources tell Breitbart News that the Department of Homeland Security, and in particular U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services [USCIS], is a hotbed of career open borders ideologues, many of whom intend to directly and indirectly subvert President Trump’s agenda.

“If you go down the list of current management at USCIS, probably 80 percent are open-borders left-wing ideologues,” a source, who has worked at the Department of Homeland Security for more than a decade and supports President Trump’s agenda, tells Breitbart News.

“USCIS probably has the most violent anti-border people in the United States. These are in the management. These do not believe in borders. I know them personally,” the source says.

“I am deeply concerned President Trump will not clean the deepest swamp, USCIS,” the source says:

All the work that is done on “vetting” of aliens is primarily for only two reasons; to keep bad guys out or to find and remove bad guys from the country. While everyone agrees that CBP [Customs and Border Patrol] is the main agency to keep bad guys out, nobody ever notices that USCIS is the agency responsible for denying applications in order to remove avenues of relief for aliens that need to be removed. Billions can be spent on border controls, but if USCIS isn’t on board, every alien that steps foot in the U.S. could find protection to stay. Even if they eventually receive a removal order, USCIS can, by policy, keep them in the U.S. for decades.

Scialabba, who has worked as USCIS deputy director since 2011, is one of the most effective open borders ideologues at the Department of Homeland Security, the source says.

She “served as acting director of USCIS from December 2013 to July 2014” in the Obama administration, according to her bio on the Department of Homeland Security’s website:

From 2006 to 2011, Scialabba was associate director of USCIS Refugee, Asylum and International Operations. She concurrently served from 2007 to 2009 as a senior advisor to former Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff on issues affecting Iraqi refugees… Her career began in October 1985 with DOJ through the Attorney General’s Honors Program. There, she litigated deportation cases as a trial attorney for INS [the Immigration and Naturalization Service] in Chicago.

As a career civil servant, and not a political appointee, Scialabba is protected by The Pendleton Act, which makes it very difficult to fire career bureaucrats.

However, nothing prevents Secretary Kelly or President Trump from immediately beginning the process of removing her from any position of authority at USCIS.

The case for removing Scialabba from USCIS entirely is particularly compelling.

In her previous position at USCIS, Director of Refugee Asylum and International Operations, “it was common knowledge that her email was directly available to anyone in the Iraqi community who wanted to apply for asylum,” the source adds.

“Iraqis that come into the country on visas were applying for asylum right away. Their cases would be denied because they didn’t qualify, they didn’t meet any of the five grounds for asylum. They didn’t have well founded fear, they weren’t persecuted,” the source notes.

“Any Iraqi that was denied asylum, they would email Scialabba directly. She would email her subordinates at the local offices, and those cases would be re-opened and approved, basically to please her,” the source said.

One attorney in one of the eight cities where local asylum approval officers were located appeared to have a direct line to Sciallabba as well. Iraqi immigrants would flock to that city because that particular lawyer, working through the local USCIS office, had a virtual 100 percent record of securing asylum approvals for Iraqis.

“I don’t know if you could make a case Scialabba had broken any laws, but it certainly was unethical because she was giving advantage to one nationality over all other nationalities,” the source tells Breitbart News.

A 2009 article in The New Yorker confirmed many of the details the source provided to Breitbart News.

George Packer wrote in the March 9, 2009, edition of The New Yorker:

I was going to write a post in praise of an obscure career civil servant who does her job with unusual conscientiousness. Her name is Lori Scialabba, and she is the—we’re dealing with the federal bureaucracy here—associate director of the Refugee, Asylum, and Operations Directorate at the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, as well as serving as the department’s senior adviser on Iraqi refugees. In other words, she’s the person appointed to cut through the red tape that was keeping all but a trickle of Iraqi refugees from reaching these shores. An Iraqi friend with an enterprising spirit began writing e-mails to Scialabba last May—first on behalf of his own petition for asylum, which seemed to be languishing somewhere in the system, then on behalf of friends waiting in Baghdad to hear about their immigration applications, which also seemed to be languishing, then on behalf of his in-laws in Syria, where they were also languishing. Pretty soon, Scialabba was hearing from Iraqis on a regular basis. And this is why she deserves some sort of medal: far from discouraging the correspondence, she always wrote back quickly. My friend’s first e-mail has a time stamp of 2:26 P.M. Scialabba’s reply came at 4:52 P.M. on the same day. He thanked her at 8:21 P.M., to which she replied at 8:37 A.M. the next morning. One of her e-mails, to an anxious Iraqi-refugee applicant who was languishing in Jordan, was sent at 10:06 P.M. on a Friday evening. To Iraqis who had grown accustomed to a sluggish and indifferent American bureaucracy after growing up with a sinister Iraqi one, Scialabba’s responsiveness must have seemed angelic. And her alacrity was matched by her efficacy: she always got the case moving, and she persisted until it was resolved.

“If Scialabba stays where she is at USCIS, and President Trump appoints a political hack to run the agency, she will continue to lead USCIS down the path of destruction to this country,” the source says.

Scialabba’s actions at USCIS subsequent to the inauguration of President Trump appear to support that view of her stewardship there.

She issued her countermanding memo on February 2, 2017 — one day before Federal District Judge James Robart issued his controversial temporary restraining order halting President Trump’s January 27 executive order titled “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States” nationwide.

In addition to Scialabba, DHS sources cited seven additional career bureaucrats at the Department of Homeland Security whom President Trump can fire or remove now in order to remove potential obstacles to his agenda:

2. David Grannis, Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis in the Office of Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security. 3. Tracy Renaud, Acting Deputy Director, Management Directorate, USCIS, DHS 4. Daniel Renaud, Associate Director, Field Operations Directorate, USCIS, DHS 5. Joanna Ruppel, Acting Associate Director, Refugee, Asylum and International Operations, USCIS, DHS 6. Mark Borkowski, Assistant Commissioner for Technology Innovation and Acquisition, Customs and Border Patrol, DHS 7. Seth M. Stodder, Assistant Secretary for Border, Immigration and Trade Policy, Office of Policy, Department of Homeland Security 8. Mary E. Giovagnoli, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Border, Immigration and Trade Policy, Department of Homeland Security

Here is the case for firing or removing the seven other Obama loyalist holdovers on the top eight list of bureaucrats President Trump can fire or remove at the Department of Homeland Security:

2. David Grannis, Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis in the Office of Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security.

As a civil servant, Grannis cannot be fired from his job.

A lifelong Democrat, “[p]rior to joining DHS, Mr. Grannis served as the Staff Director of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) from 2009 through 2014 and as the Minority Staff Director for 2015. During this time, he served as the principal intelligence advisor to SSCI Chairman Dianne Feinstein and SSCI Members and led the Committee’s efforts to produce and enact annual Intelligence Authorization Act from 2010 through 2016 and the Cybersecurity Act of 2015, according to the DHS website.

He has spent his career working for partisan Democratic members of Congress:

He previously served as a staff designee to Senator Feinstein on the SSCI from 2005 until 2009 with a varied portfolio of committee responsibilities. Mr. Grannis worked on the House Select Committee on Homeland Security with responsibilities for intelligence, aviation security, and science and technology from 2003 to 2005 and was Senior Policy Advisor to Representative Jane Harman on matters of national security from 2001 to 2003.

3. Tracy Renaud, Acting Deputy Director, Management Directorate, USCIS

“All the top management of USCIS opposes President Trump’s agenda,” a source at the Department of Homeland Security tells Breitbart News.

“Anything Trump tries to do will be blocked by this current management team,” the source adds.

Renaud, another career civil servant at USCIS, is part of that current management team.

“Renaud has spent more than 32 years working in the area of immigration benefits and services,” according to her bio on the Department of Homeland Security website:

Tracy Renaud became the acting deputy director on Jan. 20, 2017. She previously served as the associate director of the Management Directorate, a position she assumed on Nov. 2, 2014. In that role, she had responsibility for the operations of USCIS’ Office of Administration, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of Contracting, Office of Human Capital and Training, Office of Information Technology, Office of Intake and Document Production, and Office of Security and Integrity. Before becoming the associate director, Renaud served as the deputy associate director of the Management Directorate… In addition, Renaud held the position of deputy associate director of Refugee Asylum and International Operations, where she was responsible for overseas USCIS offices overseas and refugee and asylum programs.

“She began her distinguished career with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in 1982 at the Vermont Service Center. During her time there, she held a number of positions including supervisory adjudications officer, before transferring to Headquarters in 1999,” according to her official bio.

4. Daniel Renaud, Associate Director, Field Operations Directorate, USCIS

“Daniel M. Renaud has served as a federal immigration professional since 1988,” according to his bio on the Department of Homeland Security website.

Like Tracy Renaud, “[h]is career began with the Legalization program in Vermont.”

There is no publicly available information that discloses the nature of the relationship between Daniel Renaud and Tracy Renaud. Given their same last name, their origin in Vermont, and the parallel nature of their careers, it would appear there is a familial connection of some sort. While there may be no specific regulation that prohibits individuals connected by familial ties from working at the same agency, it is highly unusual for two such individuals who appear to have such ties to be simultaneously in the leadership of such a high-profile government agency.

According to his bio, Renaud has had a lengthy career working for the federal government:

In 1989, he later joined the Vermont Service Center as an adjudicator and was promoted to supervisor in 1996. Renaud was selected as a branch chief in the Headquarters Field Services Operations Division, where he was responsible for providing operational guidance to field offices. In that capacity, he served as operations coordinator on the LIFE Act implementation team and was the project manager for the indirect and direct mail processes. He was also a key player in planning and establishing the National Benefits Center in Lee’s Summit, Missouri, and the USCIS/Treasury Lockbox in Chicago, Illinois. He served as the fourth director of the Vermont Service Center from 2008-2013. In March 2013, Renaud became the acting chief of the Immigrant Investor Program (IPO).

“He later transitioned to the role of deputy associate director for the Field Operations Directorate and began serving as the associate director on February 22, 2015,” according to his official bio.

5. Joanna Ruppel, Acting Associate Director, Refugee, Asylum and International Operations, USCIS, DHS

The Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) office at USCIS has been well known as a partisan advocate for promoting asylum to unqualified applicants since at least the 2000s when Lori Scialabba headed the office.

“What USCIS has done through policy, not law, is they have made it impossible to deny asylum to people that gut feelings say is a bad guy,” a source in the Department of Homeland Security tells Breitbart News.

Anyone at USCIS who has experience in that office is tainted by that record, and current Acting Associate Director Joanna Ruppel fits into that category.

6. Mark Borkowski, Assistant Commissioner for Technology Innovation and Acquisition, Customs and Border Patrol, DHS

“I think he is an ideologue. I believe he is opposed to border security because everything he does to do that job fails, and he ignores real solutions,” a source familiar with Borkowski’s eleven-year record at DHS tells Breitbart News.

Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) was highly critical of Borkowski when he testified in May 2016 at a hearing of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security titled “Border Security Gadgets, Gizmos, and Information: Using Technology to Increase Situational Awareness and Operational Control.”

A recent article at the Homeland Security News Wire pondered how many times Borkowski will get to fail:

Once again Mark Borkowski has testified before Congress in recent months, detailing the status of the Arizona Technology Plan, or what he calls the “Plan.” According to Borkowski’s testimony, new border wall surveillance infrastructure and technology are already failing to meet management deadlines; he also acknowledges a highly critical GAO report on the status of his newest border security plan. The Plan is the lynchpin of the Southern Border and Approaches Campaign – previously called the Secure Border Initiative Network (SBInet). SBInet never worked and fell hopelessly behind schedule, and in 2011 DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano pulled the plug on it.

“Borkowski was there when the Boeing virtual fence failed eleven years ago. They lost $1 billion of the taxpayers money,” the source tells Breitbart News.

“The problem I’ve identified on the border is the total disinterest on the part of Borkowski in measuring the accountability of technology he is funding,” the source adds.

“They’ve put hundreds of millions of dollars putting up these fixed towers in the mountains around Nogales, Arizona. They can’t see anything,” the source notes.

“He’s a loyal American,” the source says, but adds that he’s just not effective at controlling the border.

“Assistant Commissioner Mark S. Borkowski leads the new Office of Acquisition, created within CBP in June, 2016,” according to his bio at the Department of Homeland Security website:

Previously Borkowski was the assistant commissioner of the Office of Technology Innovation and Acquisition starting in July 2010. As such, Borkowski was responsible for ensuring that CBP’s technology efforts are properly coordinated and focused on meeting CBP’s complex border mission. Prior to this appointment, Borkowski served as CBP’s executive director of the Secure Border Initiative, where he oversaw the implementation of the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts to develop enhanced situational awareness for frontline CBP personnel along the U.S. borders… Borkowski served more than 23 years on active duty in the U.S. Air Force, retiring in 2004 at the rank of colonel. His last assignment in the Air Force was as system program director for the Space Based Infrared Systems program office. In that capacity, he oversaw satellite programs worth more than $40 billion.

7. Seth M. Stodder, Assistant Secretary for Border, Immigration and Trade Policy, Office of Policy, Department of Homeland Security

An Obama political appointee, Stodder can be fired now by President Trump.

“Seth Stodder was appointed by President Obama to serve as Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Border, Immigration & Trade Policy in March 2016,” according to his bio at the Department of Homeland Security.

Stodder also has ties to the George W. Bush administration, according to his bio:

This is Assistant Secretary Stodder’s second tour of duty at DHS. Earlier in his career, Assistant Secretary Stodder served in the Bush Administration as Director of Policy and Planning for U.S. Customs and Border Protection. In that role, he helped lead the development of U.S. border policy in the immediate wake of the 9/11 attacks, and the creation of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), the Container Security Initiative (CSI), and the National Targeting Center (NTC), among a variety of other initiatives focused not only on securing the borders of the United States, but also on facilitating the secure flow of lawful travel and trade.

8. Mary E. Giovagnoli, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Border, Immigration and Trade Policy, Department of Homeland Security

Giovagnoli reports directly to Assistant Secretary Stodder.

Giovagnoli represented the Department of Homeland Security at a June 2016 symposium of the American Association for the Advancement of Science that used “the Syrian [refugee] Crisis as a case study.”

“Prior to joining DHS in 2015, Mary served as the Director of Policy for the American Immigration Council, managing its Immigration Policy Center, and contributing to the legislative and academic debate on immigration reform from 2009 to 2015,” her bio from that event states.

“In 2005, Mary became the senior advisor to the Director of Congressional Relations at USCIS. She was also awarded a Congressional Fellowship from USCIS to serve for a year in Senator Edward M. Kennedy’s office where she worked on comprehensive immigration reform and refugee issues,” her bio adds:

This list of eight Obama holdover bureaucrats merely scratches the surface of bureaucrats at the Department of Homeland Security who are problematic for the new Trump administration.

President Trump was elected on a promise to drain the swamp in Washington D.C. The swamp at the Department of Homeland Security is much larger than anyone had imagined. Now that he’s been in office for a little over one month, President Trump has a lot of work to do if he wants to accomplish his goal of draining the swamp.

(Note: Breitbart News embedded that February 2, 2017 internal memo signed by Scialabba within this article prior to its temporary removal from Document Cloud. Late on February 22, the document was restored to Document Cloud. The current status of that Document Cloud document can be seen by clicking here. Breitbart News retained screen shots of the internal memo prior to its initial removal.)
“Division” was the word of the night during Wednesday’s debate between eight candidates who are vying to become the Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) next chair.

Elections are this Saturday in Atlanta Georgia, where 447 DNC members will vote to appoint their party’s next chairman.


The candidates who debated were former Obama Labor Secretary Tom Perez; Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN); South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg; Chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party Jaime Harrison; Executive Director of the Idaho Democratic Party Sally Boynton Brown; former “Rock the Vote” President Jehmu Greene; U.S. Air Force Veteran Sam Ronan; and attorney Peter Peckarsky. The debate was moderated by CNN’s Dana Bash and Chris Cuomo.

While the candidates differed on how to unite their fractured party, the one topic on which they almost unanimously agreed was their opposition to President Donald Trump.

Ellison, who along with Perez is a leading contender for the chairmanship, said: “Trump has done a number of things which legitimately raise the question of impeachment.”

Perez said a “unified Democratic Party is not only our best hope, it’s Donald Trump’s worst nightmare.”

Accusing Trump of stealing the Democrats’ message, Ellison said, “Trump did say he was for jobs, trade, infrastructure and protecting social security. That’s our message. That’s what we do. That’s why he beat all those other Republicans; because he stole a Democratic message.”

Echoing Ellison, Buttigieg said Trump is “like a computer virus in the American political system. He ties up our minds and our processing power with these equations that don’t even have any solutions until the system overheats and breaks down.”

Greene added: “This man is arrogantly marching us towards fascism.”

Harrison was asked if going negative, and attacking Trump, is is the right strategy for the Democrats. He justified the negativity by saying, “We are in unprecedented times right now… We have to show the American people what we are all about.”

Brown departed slightly from the rest of the group, saying that one area where she agrees with the Republicans is that “the federal government has too much power,” and noting that “we need to make sure that all our states have the ability to come back and follow their local laws and pass those local laws.”

Buttigieg and Ronan stood out as alternatives to the ongoing power struggle between the remnants of the Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton campaigns, and the progressive-versus-moderate party fault lines .

Howard Dean, for one, has recognized the value of introducing young blood into the Democratic Party. “Most important thing: He’s the outside-the-Beltway candidate,” he said in a ringing endorsement of Buttigieg, hours before Wednesday’s debate, Politico reported. “This party is in trouble. Our strongest age group that votes for us is under 35. And they don’t consider themselves Democrats,” Dean said.

Ellison, who has been dogged by accusations of antisemitism stemming from his past ties with the Nation of Islam and his troubling statements on Israel, criticized Trump for not condemning an alarming rise in antisemitism quickly enough.

“These are false allegations,” Ellison said of being called an antisemite. “I have 300 rabbis and Jewish community leaders who have signed a letter supporting me,” he said. “I have strong support from the Jewish community.”

Meanwhile, the candidates presented different approaches about how to reunite the Democratic Party. Perez suggested it was time to “get back to basics” and Ronan called for introducing new blood.

“We need to get money out of politics,” Ronan said.

Perez called for a change in the Democratic Party’s culture. “We all too frequently give a millennial a seat at the table, then we pat him on the head and say, ‘you got your seat, now shut up.’ And we have to change that approach.”

He added, “Diversity is being invited to the dance, inclusion is being asked to dance, and we need to make sure we are both engaging in diversity and inclusion.”

According to The Hill‘s newly-released survey of DNC members, Ellison has an edge over Perez. “But while both men claim they are close to securing commitments from the majority of the 447 voting members, neither candidate is assured victory,” The Hill noted.

CNN reported that “aides and vote-counters for several candidates say they believe Perez — who says he has commitments of support from 180 of the DNC’s 447 voting members — has a narrow lead over Ellison. But both sides admit they don’t yet have the votes necessary to clinch the job.”

Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter and Periscope @AdelleNaz
American Conservative Union President Matt Schlapp hosted a conversation with White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and White House strategist Steve Bannon on Thursday at CPAC 2017.

Priebus began by declaring that President Trump, who will also speak at CPAC, would become known as “one of the greatest presidents that ever served this country.”


Schlapp noted that Trump will also be the first president to address CPAC during his first year in office since Ronald Reagan in 1981, and he congratulated Trump for assembling “the most conservative Cabinet we’ve ever seen, according to our CPAC ratings.”

When Schlapp asked for the “biggest misconception about what’s going on in the Donald Trump White House,” Priebus replied: “In regard to us two, I think the biggest misconception is everything that you’re reading.”

Priebus and Bannon said that contrary to media reports about friction between them, they’re working very well together.

“It’s actually something that you all helped build,” Priebus told the audience. “When you bring together, and what this election showed, and what President Trump showed — and let’s not kid ourselves, I mean I can talk about data and ground game, and Steve can talk about big ideas, but the truth of the matter is, Donald Trump, President Trump brought together the party and the conservative movement.”

The President’s chief of staff went on to say, prompting a burst of applause:

And I’ve got to tell you, if the party and the conservative movement are together — similar to Steve and I — it can’t be stopped. And President Trump was the one guy, he was the one person — and I can say it after overseeing 16 people kill each other — it was Donald Trump that was able to bring this party and this movement together. Steve and I know that, and we live it every day. Our job is to get the agenda of President Trump through the door, and on pen and paper.

Bannon, formerly a Breitbart News executive, argued that the mainstream media has been consistently wrong in how it portrayed the Trump campaign, the transition, and now the administration during its first months.

“If you remember, the campaign was the most chaotic, by the media’s description, most chaotic, most disorganized, most unprofessional, had no earthly idea what they were doing — and then you saw them all crying and weeping that night on the Eighth,” he recalled.

Bannon agreed with Priebus that President Trump’s ideas, energy, and vision were the key to galvanizing a broad coalition of supporters around him.

“A lot of people have strong beliefs about different things, but we understand that you can come together to win, and we understood that from August 15th,” Bannon said. “We never had a doubt, and Donald Trump never had a doubt that he was going to win.”

Priebus and Bannon both emphasized how much of Trump’s agenda is clearly laid out in his speeches, going all the way back to his appearance at CPAC 2011.

“What all of us were starving for the whole time, because we’re so sick of politics and politicians — in spite of the fact that we love being here, we actually hate politics — but what we were starving for was somebody real,” Priebus contended. “Somebody genuine, somebody that was actually who he said he was.”

“If you want to see the Trump agenda, it’s very simple: it was all in the speeches,” said Bannon. “He went around to these rallies with those speeches that had a tremendous amount of content in them. I happen to believe, and I think many others do, he’s probably the greatest public speaker in those large arenas since William Jennings Bryan.”

“Remember, we didn’t have any money,” Bannon pointed out. “Hillary Clinton and these guys had over $2 billion. We had a couple of hundred million dollars. It was those rallies and those speeches. All he’s doing right now is he’s laid out an agenda with those speeches, to the promises he made, and our job every day is just to execute on that, to simply get a path to how those get executed.”

Bannon testified that President Trump’s response to advice that he should deviate from his agenda for short-term political benefit has been, “No, I promised the American people this, and this is the plan we’re going to execute on.”

“That’s why you’ve seen the executive orders, the way he’s gone through the Supreme Court, and by the way the other 102 judges that we’re eventually going to pick,” he said.

“It’s just methodical, and that’s what the mainstream media won’t report. Just like they were dead wrong on the chaos of the campaign, and just like they were dead wrong on the chaos of the transition, they are absolutely dead wrong about what’s going on today, because we have a team that’s just grinding it through on what President Donald Trump promised the American people. The mainstream media had better understand something: all of those promises are going to be implemented,” Bannon promised.

Priebus said the most urgent task for the administration was confirming Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. He explained:

Number One, we’re not talking about a change over a four-year period. We’re talking about a change of potentially forty years of law. But more important than that, it established trust. It established that President Trump is a man of his word. We always knew that. But when he said here’s twenty names on a piece of paper back in July, remember, and he said, ‘I’m going to pick my judge out of these twenty people that are on this piece of paper,’ and he did it — that’s number one, because Neil Gorsuch represents a conservative, represents the type of judge that has the vision of Donald Trump, and it fulfills the promise that he made to all of you, and to all Americans across the country.

Priebus said the second item on the president’s agenda was deregulation. He argued that Trump hasn’t been given enough credit for imposing a consistent process of deregulation by ordering that “for every regulation presented for passage, that Cabinet secretary has to identify two that that person would eliminate.”

The third priority identified by Priebus was immigration — “protecting the sovereignty of the United States, putting a wall on the southern border, making sure that criminals are not part of our process.”

“These are all things that eight percent of Americans agree with, and these are all things that President Trump is doing within thirty days,” he declared.

Bannon divided the White House agenda into three categories: national security, economic nationalism, and the deconstruction of the administrative state. He said:

I think one of the most pivotal moments in modern American history was his immediate withdrawal from TPP. Got us out of a trade deal and let our sovereignty come back to ourselves. The people in the mainstream media don’t get this, but we’re already working in consultation with the Hill, people are starting to think through a whole raft of amazing and innovative bilateral relationships, bilateral trading relationships with people that will reposition America in the world as a fair trading nation, and start to bring jobs — high value added manufacturing jobs — back to the United States of America.

“The rule of law is going to exist, when you talk about our sovereignty and you talk about immigration,” he stated, linking the president’s trade positions with national security. He said the defense budget and Secretary of Defense James Mattis’s plan for defeating ISIS would also be part of that imperative.

Bannon made the interesting point that business leaders have been telling the White House that slashing regulations is at least as important as cutting taxes to get the economy moving faster.

“If you look at these Cabinet appointees, they were selected for a reason, and that is the deconstruction — the way the progressive left runs is that if they can’t get it passed, they’re just going to put it in some kind of regulation in an agency. That’s all going to be deconstructed, and that’s why I think this regulatory thing is so important,” he said.

Schlapp brought the conversation back to media coverage of the new administration. Priebus said he thought there was hope for improvement.

“I”m personally so conditioned to hearing about why President Trump isn’t going to win the election, why a controversy in the primary is going to take down President Trump; I lived through it as chairman of the party,” he said, recalling his time as chairman of the Republican National Committee during the 2016 election.

“It really hit me because it was maybe the summer of 2015, and you remember the media was constantly pounding President Trump, and the polling kept getting better and better for President Trump. But it was when I went home and got out of this town, and I went back to Kenosha, and I talked to my neighbor. And I said, ‘Bob, what do you think?’ He goes, ‘Man, I really love that Trump.’ I said, ‘Sandy, what do you think?’ ‘We’re for Trump.’”

“You all lived through it too, because you all had different people you were for, but you kept running into your neighbors, and you kept running into people that you know, and what did they keep telling you? They kept telling you, ‘Trump, Trump, Trump,’” he said, unintentionally sparking a chant of the president’s name from the audience. He said it was clear the country was hungry for something much bigger than a single issue campaign, or a modest course correction from the previous administration.

Bannon took his turn at the microphone to disagree with Priebus about whether media coverage of the Trump administration would improve. He argued that it was likely to get worse.

“They’re corporatist, globalist media that are adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has,” Bannon argued, recalling how that message resonated everywhere from previous CPAC appearances by Trump to small town hall meetings.

He predicted media coverage would therefore get worse as Trump continues to “press his agenda, and as economic conditions get better, more jobs get better, they’re going to continue to fight.” Bannon warned:

If you think they’re going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken. Every day it is going to be a fight, and that is what I’m proudest about Donald Trump. All the opportunities he had to waver off this, all the people who have come to him and said, ‘Oh, you’ve got to moderate.’ Every day in the Oval Office he tells Reince and I, ‘I commited this to the American people, I promised this when I ran, and I’m going to deliver on this.’

Priebus stressed the importance of Republicans sticking together through the coming years.

“I think what you’ve got is an incredible opportunity to use this victory that President Trump and all of us, and you, and everyone that made this happen put together, and work together, continue to communicate,” he said, adding:

Some of the core principles of President Trump are very similar to those of Ronald Reagan. When you look at peace through strength and building up the military — I mean, how many times have you heard President Trump say, ‘I’m going to build up the military, I’m going to take care of the vets, I’m going to make sure that we don’t have a Navy that’s decimated and planes that are nowhere to be found?’ Peace through strength. Deregulation. You think about the economy and the economic boom that was created. Some of it is going to take a little time — to get the jobs back, to get more money in people’s pockets. Those things are going to happen. In the meantime, we have to stick together and make sure that we’ve got President Trump for eight years. He’s somebody that we know that we’re going to be very proud of as these things get done. But it’s going to take all of us working together to make it happen.

Bannon saw a “new political order” continuing to take shape, noting that populists, limited-government conservatives, libertarians, and economic nationalists could be found in the CPAC audience.

“We have wide and sometimes divergent opinions, but I think the center core of what we believe — that we’re a nation with an economy, not an economy just in some global marketplace with open borders, but we are a nation with a culture and a reason for being,” he said. “I think that’s what unites us, and I think that is what’s going to unite this movement going forward.”

“We’re at the top of the first inning on this. It’s going to take just as much fight, just as much focus, and just as much determination, and the one thing I’d like to leave you guys today with is that we want you to have our back … but more importantly, hold us accountable. Hold us accountable to what we promised, hold us accountable for delivering on what we promised.”

Modertor Matt Schlapp, in acknowledgment of the unique nature of their joint appearance, asked the Honorable Gentlemen what they appreciated about one another.

Priebus lauded Bannon for being “very dogged in ensuring that every day, the promises that President Trump has made are the promises that we’re working on,” for being “incredibly loyal,” and for being “extremely consistent.”

“As you can imagine, there are many things hitting the president’s ear and desk every day, different things that come to the president that want to move him off his agenda, and Steve is very consistent and very loyal to the agenda, and is a presence that I think is very important to have in the White House,” he said. He added that he thought of Bannon as a dear and cherished friend.

“I can run a little hot on occasions,” Bannon allowed. “And Reince is indefatigable. It’s low key, but it’s determination. The thing I respect most, and the only way this thing works, is Reince is always kind of steady … his job is by far one of the toughest jobs I’ve ever seen in my life.”
White House chief strategist Steve Bannon detailed President Donald Trump’s agenda during an appearance at CPAC, thrilling the audience of conservatives who wanted to hear more about what Trump would do as president.

Bannon broke the agenda down into three categories. pointing to economic nationalism, national sovereignty, and the deconstruction of the administrative state.


Part of restoring American sovereignty, Bannon explained, was fixing and improving intelligence, the defense department, and homeland security.

Economic nationalism would focus on restoring American prominence in trade and commerce — “rethinking” how to reconstruct trade deals around the world to favor America first, he said.

The most important two minutes of Steve Bannon's CPAC speech -> pic.twitter.com/NcwbFgNoAL — Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 23, 2017

Bannon explained that the Trump administration and Congress were already working together to focus on bilateral trade deals with other countries, especially after pulling out of the Trans Pacific Partnership. The goal, he said, was to make America a “fair trading nation” and bring more high paying jobs into America.

The CPAC audience applauded and cheered when Bannon spoke of the deconstruction of the administrative state, cutting cabinet agency regulations that were choking business growth.

“The way the progressive left runs is that if they can’t get it passed, they’re just going to put it in some sort of regulation in an agency,” he said. “That’s all going to be deconstructed.”
The Social Security Administration paid $1 billion in benefits to those who did not have a Social Security number (SSN), according to a recent audit.

The agency’s inspector general found errors in how the government documented representative payees or individuals who are designated to receive retirement or disability benefits on behalf of those who cannot manage the benefits themselves, the Washington Free Beacon reported.


The audit, released Friday, found thousands of instances where no SSN was found on file.

The agency paid $1 billion to 22,426 representative payees who “did not have an SSN” and had not kept any paper applications supporting an individual’s case to receive benefits on someone else’s behalf, according to the inspector general.

“Furthermore, unless it takes corrective action, we estimate SSA will pay about $182.5 million in benefits, annually, to representative payees who do not have an SSN or paper application supporting their selection,” the inspector general said.

The agency also paid $853.1 million in benefits since 2004 to individuals whom the agency terminated as representative payees.

The inspector general said the errors occurred because the agency did not keep paper records of applications or purge terminated employees from the system.

Of the audit’s sample of 100 beneficiaries, only six SSN’s were properly recorded.

The inspector general also said that illegal aliens had been receiving benefits through the representative payee system.

Illegal aliens without SSNs are allowed to receive government benefits if they are representing their minor children.

In response to the audit, the SSA said that it switched to a new Electronic Representative Payee System last year, which “may have resulted in applications showing as terminated or not selected.”

The SSA defended its issuance of SSNs to non-citizens and non-SSN holders, saying, “Representative payees play a significant role in many beneficiaries’ lives.”

The agency added that the Social Security Act allows an illegal alien to serve as a payee.

The “absence of an SSN is not a criterion preventing an individual from serving as payee,” the agency added.
The Trump Administration may put off any major infrastructure plan until 2018, Axios’ Jonathan Swan reports. With fiscal fights, Obamacare repeal legislation, and a Supreme Court nomination all on the horizon, Capitol Hill’s agenda is crammed. Pushing off consideration of Trump’s infrastructure plan will both give “Republican lawmakers more breathing room amid a crowd of issues,” and strategically time the debate for when midterm elections heat up.

From Axios:


The politics: Republican strategists say that Democrats, who’ll be reluctant to give Trump a win, will be in a jam as midterm elections close in: They’ll be under huge pressure to support big projects that’ll bring money and improvements to their districts. And blue-collar unions, including construction and building trades, can be expected to favor of the package, driving a wedge into the Democratic base.

For the rest of the article, click here.
After suffering its most dangerous year for decades, Chicago is already on track for an even worse year of bloodshed, murder, and crime as Tuesday counted seven dead in a single day. The victims included a pregnant woman.

Just after 9 PM on February 22, Chicago police found a 20-year-old man and a pregnant woman shot in the city’s Chatham neighborhood, Chicago’s WGN TV reported.


The man was found shot in a parked car and the woman was discovered lying on a sidewalk. The victims were taken to a nearby hospital but both were pronounced dead.

The male shooting victim was a known gang member. The name of the female victim is not being released.

Thus far this year, Chicago has already suffered 99 homicides with 94 of those deaths by firearm. 2017 is also already ahead of 2016 with over 400 shooting victims. By the end of February last year the city saw only 202 shootings with 46 dead.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com.
The Democrats and AstroTurf activists besieging Republican Senators and Representatives at town halls this month aren’t taking a page out of the Tea Party’s playbook. They are just repeating the same tactics they themselves used in 2009.

As ordinary constituents alarmed by Obamacare challenged Democratic members of Congress who had been sent to sell the bill before reading it, Democrats fired up their activist machine, busing in union members and well-trained organizers.


The man behind the plan was none other than Robert Creamer, who James O’Keefe and Project Veritas busted last year for his role in a plan to incite violence at Trump rallies and create a sense of “anarchy” around the Republican nominee. In 2006-7, Creamer had developed a political blueprint to sell the public on “universal health care,” which he began writing will serving time in federal prison for his role in a check-kiting scheme to keep his progressive organizations afloat.

As Breitbart News — then in its infancy — documented at the time, Creamer’s tactics were on display at the town hall held by his wife, Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), who had promised to bring a million Obamacare supporters into the streets. They plotted to block constituents from asking questions, and smuggled signs into the meeting to block television cameras from seeing any disappointed or outraged residents.

(Full disclosure: I ran against Schakowsky in the 2010 congressional election.)

The video above of a Health Care for America Now organizer coaching activists outside Schakowsky’s town hall became the “smoking gun” in the national debate over which side was “AstroTurfing” the town halls.

The left was doing it then, and they are doing it now, using the legitimate protests of the Tea Party movement as cover for their shameless attempts to hijack town hall meetings into anti-Trump rallies. The mainstream media, of course, are more than happy to provide fawning coverage.

But the so-called “Resistance” is likely to fail, for two reasons, both related to the mathematics of the 2018 congressional elections.

First, in 2009, there were still a large number of Democrats representing “swing” House districts. These were conservative Democrats who had learned to survive in Republican areas by adopting moderate views; or members of the class of 2006, who then-Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) cleverly recruited as part of Democrats’ push to win Congress.

Second, Obama’s foolish determination to push Obamacare through Congress without any significant compromises to the opposition, and without any Republican votes, led to a nationwide backlash that pushed Democrats out of power in several states. That meant Republicans were in charge of re-drawing congressional districts after the 2010 Census.

Obama’s home state of Illinois redistricted several Republicans out of their seats. Almost everywhere else, the Democrats were locked out.

So despite the news footage of angry Democrats besieging Republicans at town hall meetings, almost all of those Senators and Representatives are going to be re-elected in 2018.

Republicans only have eight Senate seats up for re-election next year, while Democrats will have to defend 25 — including ten where Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton in 2016. Democrats may topple a couple of Republicans in California, which is the center of the “Resistance,” but that is all they will achieve.

The House also looks solid. Yet there is one way Republicans could contrive to lose it.

The 2010 class was elected on the promise to repeal Obamacare. They failed, but told their voters to wait until they had the Senate. After 2014, they told voters to wait until they had the White House. Now they have that — and are still telling voters to wait.

The voters’ patience is not infinite, and if Republicans fail to repeal Obamacare, expect massive stay-aways next November — a Tea Party in reverse.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. His new book, How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.
San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo failed to protect his city’s residents from anti-Donald Trump riots last June. Now he has failed to protect them from flooding.

The city was forced to evacuate 14,000 residents earlier this week as the Coyote Creek overflowed its banks, bringing a potentially toxic flood of water contaminated with fuel and sewage.


City officials, however, had underestimated the danger. The San Jose Mercury News notes that they only expected flooding to happen if flow rates in the creek exceeded 7,400 feet per second. They did exceed that rate — but flooding had begun even before that. The city relied on faulty assumptions and failed to warn residents, meaning that the first time many people found out they had to leave was when they were told they had to do so by emergency responders moving through flooded streets.

“If the first time a resident is aware that they need to get out of a home is when they see a firefighter in a boat, then clearly there has been a failure,” Mayor Liccardo admitted, according to the Los Angeles Times. “There is no question that we’ll need to do things differently next time.”

Residents endured what the Times describes as “harrowing” escapes, and expressed anger at not being warned.

The Associated Press described other residents’ angry reactions:

“It was scary,” said Irma Gonzalez, 59, whose two-story apartment complex is alongside the creek. She was awakened about 2:30 a.m. by police pounding on her door. “They were like, ‘You’ve got to hurry up and go! Move it!” … Resident Sandy Moll said she had prepared for about a foot of water, but the flooding spilled over sandbags stacked 3 feet high and broke down her back door. Moll told the Mercury News in San Jose (http://bayareane.ws/2mcmIFD ) she was angry at the lack of warning. “I’m seething,” she said. “It’s the lack of information and forewarning when they had to have known. They never even said you need to prepare for a major flood.”

The flooding marks the second major controversy for Liccardo in less than a year. When mobs of anti-Trump protesters attacked and bloodied Trump supporters leaving a political rally as police stood by, Mayor Liccardo blamed Trump for the violence: “At some point Donald Trump needs to take responsibility for the irresponsible behavior of his campaign,” he said.

Earlier this year, Liccardo also vowed to maintain San Jose’s status as a “sanctuary city” for illegal aliens, and to defy federal immigration laws, despite warning in an executive order issued by the president.

Now, however, it appears that Liccardo cannot even provide the most basic sanctuary to his own residents.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. His new book, How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.
Senator John McCain (R-AZ), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made a secret trip to Kurdish territory in Syria last weekend, where he visited American military personnel. He also met with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey on his way home.

“Senator McCain traveled to northern Syria last week to visit U.S. forces deployed there and to discuss the counter-ISIL campaign and ongoing operations to retake Raqqa. Senator McCain’s visit was a valuable opportunity to assess dynamic conditions on the ground in Syria and Iraq. President Trump has rightly ordered a review of the U.S. strategy and plans to defeat ISIL,” said a McCain spokeswoman quoted by The Hill.


McCain’s visit reportedly took him to the Kurdish town of Kobane, which was the focus of an intense battle between the Kurds and the Islamic State in 2014. He made a previous visit to Syria in 2013, where he met with rebel forces backed by the United States.

McCain’s trip to Syria is controversial for several reasons. As The Hill points out, just a month ago Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii announced she made a secret trip to Syria and had a secret meeting with dictator Bashar Assad, a revelation greeted with “shock and disgust” by lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. The Trump administration is not likely to be pleased with so much freelance congressional diplomacy.

Senator McCain does not appear to have done anything as outrageous as Gabbard, and the statement from his office sought to portray him as helpful to the Trump administration. The White House has said little to date about McCain’s Syrian excursion. CNN cites McCain’s office saying it was an official congressional delegation trip, “meaning the US government sponsored and paid for the senator’s travel.”

As Fox News notes, McCain has been a vociferous Republican critic of the Trump administration, including a “withering critique of Trump’s worldview” delivered at the Munich Security Conference last week.

The Obama administration left its successors in a delicate position with Turkey and the Kurds in Syria, having planned to arm the Kurds and use them as a primary proxy force in the coming battle to recapture the Islamic State’s capital of Raqqa. Turkey is strongly opposed to such a role for the Kurds.

Also, the Washington Examiner quotes McCain’s close friend, Senator Lindsay Graham (R-SC), arguing that Sunni extremists in Raqqa would “kick the Kurds out” if they participated heavily in liberating the city, so the Trump administration should consider at least partially replacing Kurdish forces with Turks in the Raqqa battle plan.

“The United States must work with Turkey to deal a rapid and lasting defeat to ISIL as part of a broader strategy to strengthen US allies and partners, counter the malign influence of our adversaries, and build a favourable balance of power in the region,” McCain said in a statement after meeting with Erdogan in Ankara.

Secretary of Defense James Mattis just completed his own trip to the Middle East, and will soon present President Trump with the comprehensive strategy review praised by Senator McCain’s office.

“We have been working diligently with our interagency partners to develop it with the intelligence community, our military commanders on the ground, the Joint Staff and our policy team here, and it represents the input of a number of other departments,” said Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff Davis on Tuesday.
Tim Lee, senior vice president of Legal and Public Affairs for Center for Individual Freedom, joined Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow broadcasting from CPAC on Thursday to discuss the Trump presidency, tax policy, and the Dakota Access Pipeline, among other topics.

Given that the United States currently has the world’s highest corporate tax rate, Lee pointed out that there’s “even some consensus on the Left” that Trump needs to move forward with tax cuts. “There’s a consensus it needs to be done, but figuring out how to do it, that’s the big issue” in Congress, said Lee.


“We’ve got to keep a fire lit under them,” he added. Lee also discussed the deficit at length. “If we focus too much on the deficit and coming up with a net zero, then you start to open the door to more taxes because you think the deficit’s more important than growth,” said Lee.

Lee added, “Growth is more important.”

Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern.

LISTEN:
Over a dozen people were arrested in Portland, Oregon, on Monday after protesters clashed with police during one of many anti-Trump rallies taking place across the country.

The rally, organized by the far-left group “Don’t Shoot Portland,” involved protesters wearing balaclavas and gas masks. The group has close links to Black Lives Matter, and was a prominent force in the Ferguson protests. On Monday, police were called to the scene after it emerged the group did not have a permit.


Protesters initially blocked traffic on SW 3rd Avenue, leading to a handful of arrests. The remaining protesters then joined a separate rally towards Portland’s Director Park, where police detained more protestors after a physical altercation with the cops.

Law enforcement used pepper spray and “less-than-lethal munitions” to contain the protesters. Police arrested 13 people in total.

“You definitely grabbed me by my tits,” one woman could be heard screaming at police.

The protest was one of many held across the country on Monday as part of the #NotMyPresident movement, with similar protests held in New York, Los Angeles, Washington, DC, and Chicago.

“Brought to you by the, same people who held a Women’s March that wasn’t about Women, who held peaceful protests against a non-existent Muslim Ban that led to counter protesters getting assaulted, and who rioted and did millions in property damage to throw a fit over a legitimate election result they didn’t like – more of the same,” a spokesperson for the Oregon Republican Party told KATU2.

He continued, “Even if the Alt-Left and the Democrat Public Officials helping and supporting them never get tired of it, regular Oregonians are. The nation has problems to solve, many of which aren’t getting solved right here in Oregon.”

The arrests are part of rising left-wing violence in America, with anarchist protesters rioting outside events such as Milo Yiannopoulos’s canceled appearance at UC Berkeley, as well as comedian Gavin McInnes’s talk at New York University.

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com
“And would sir like a regular or large fries, with that? And how about a McFlurry?”

I do hope that Gavin “Toast” Schmidt, the head of NASA’s Goddard Institute of Space Studies (GISS), followed the advice I gave him a few months back. Because it now looks very much as if he and many of his colleagues are about to face exciting new job opportunities, hopefully in areas best suited to their talents, such as the challenging world of fast-food retail.


Yes, as we predicted, NASA is going to be stripped of the two main roles it enjoyed under the Obama administration – Muslim outreach and green propaganda – and return to its original day (and night) job as an agency dedicated to space exploration.

The U.S. Senate passed legislation recently cutting funding for NASA’s global warming research. The House is expected to pass the bill, and President Trump will likely sign it. Supporters say it “re-balances” NASA’s budget back toward space exploration and away from global warming and earth science research. Republicans plan to end the more than $2 billion NASA spends on its Earth Science Mission Directorate. “By rebalancing, I’d like for more funds to go into space exploration; we’re not going to zero out earth sciences,” Texas Republican Rep. Lamar Smith, who chairs the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, told E&E News. “I’d like for us to remember what our priorities are, and there are another dozen agencies that study earth science and climate change, and they can continue to do that.”

Before we shed too many tears for the plight of Gavin Schmidt and the rest of his global warming research team, though, let’s just pause to reflect on how much damage they have done to the cause of honest science over the years and what eye-wateringly vast quantities of our money they have wasted.

A good place to start is this excellent piece by Steve Goddard, entitled The Pause Is Real: NASA Temperatures Aren’t.

Here is the damning chart that says it all:

How did a supposedly respectable government agency get away with such blatant fraud?

Well, one answer is that it was encouraged to do so by the US government which paid its Earth Science research division $2 billion a year, while giving only $781.5 million and $826.7 million to its astrophysics and space technology divisions. Obama wanted “global warming” to be real and dangerous: and – lo! – thanks to the magic of his crack prestidigitators at NASA, NOAA and the rest, it was.

But the longer answer is that this is what happens when green ideologues are allowed to infiltrate and hijack government institutions. As we’ve reported before, NASA has been caught out fiddling temperature data on “an unbelievable scale”. So too has NOAA. That’s because their global warming departments are mostly run by true believers – scientists who want to show the world that global warming is a major threat in urgent need of more grant funding, regardless of what the actual temperature data shows. Hence the many, many adjustments.

This has done tremendous damage not just in the US but across the world because it has enabled green propagandists to point at the dodgy adjusted data from NASA and NOAA and claim: “The Experts say…”

Now, thanks to Donald Trump, that fraud is about to come to a sudden and painful end. It never ceases to amaze and nauseate me that more people, especially on the right, aren’t more grateful for what is being done here.

While mainstream media commentators on both left and right bloviate about Trump’s style (clearly they prefer Obama’s empty rhetoric) and stoke up fake news stories about Russian plots, Trump is busily getting on with one of the most valuable and important missions ever conducted by a US president: he is putting an end to the biggest and most expensive scientific scam in history.

Oh, and he is also working wonders for property rights and business by rescinding such damaging regulations as the Waters Of The US and the Climate Action Plan.

A source briefed on the matter told The Washington Post one of the orders “will instruct the Environmental Protection Agency to begin rewriting the 2015 regulation that limits greenhouse-gas emissions from existing electric utilities” and order “the Interior Department’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to lift a moratorium on federal coal leasing.” Trump will issue a second order instructing the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to rewrite the “Waters of the U.S.” (WOTUS) rule that expanded federal control over rivers, streams and wetlands — even those on private property.

If ever a swamp needed draining, it’s the swamp of the $1.5 trillion environmental scam. This could have gone on for ever and ever. Our grandchildren ought to be properly grateful to President Trump that it didn’t.
Violent protests against President Donald Trump and an America-First agenda appear to be backfiring: A new poll shows a majority of voters strongly disapprove of the Left’s attempts to stall Trump’s appointments and of liberals defending criminal illegal aliens.

McLaughlin & Associates, which polled for Trump’s presidential campaign, found Trump’s approval rating has improved as the public’s mood on protesters has soured. A majority, or 51 percent, want Trump to move away from Obama’s policies, and 41 percent now think that the country is on the right track. Nearly half, or 48 percent, think it’s still on the wrong track, compared to 55 percent on Feb. 6 and 62 percent in January—which is a net increase of plus 27 percent, pollsters note.


George Soros-linked protests seemed to anger voters. Asked if they support “billionaire George Soros financing left-wing organizations to pay people to protest against President Trump, and the left often using violent demonstrations on college campuses and in cities to stop pro-Trump, conservatives from speaking in public,” 70 percent of all voters disapproved, including 54 percent who strongly disapproved. A majority of liberals, or 51 percent, disapproved, along with 76 percent of independents. “It’s very clear that the paid protests, and certainly violent protests of the left are backfiring,” pollsters argued.

Rallying on behalf of violent, foreign-born criminals is also deeply unpopular with voters. Asked what they thought of “protests by the left and Democrats to stop the deportation of illegal aliens who have been convicted of serious crimes in the United States to allow them to remain free in the United States,” 62 percent disapprove, including 64 percent of independents, 55 percent of Hispanics, and 44 percent of Democrats.

Asked if they support “Democratic Senators using Senate rules to delay or block President Trump’s cabinet nominations to undermine his presidency including liberal Senators filibustering to stop President Trump’s appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court”, half, or 50 percent of all voters disapproved. Another 41 percent approved. This is roughly consistent with other polls’ findings: Rasmussen Reports found 62 percent believed Trump’s Supreme Court and Cabinet appointees “deserve a yes-or-no vote from the Senate.”

“The Left’s tactics and protests are backfiring. The substance of the president’s messages and policies has the support of the majority of American voters,” Republican strategist John McLaughlin told Breitbart News. “The president’s push for change through better security and economic growth is moving his job approval and popular ratings up.”

“There is renewed hope in America and the majority of voters are supporting our president, while the Left shows how out of touch and failed their policies are,” he added.

The poll, commissioned by Secure America Now, surveyed 1,000 likely voters from Feb. 15 to Feb. 20, with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.
Americans thought electing a trash-talking billionaire reality TV star to the presidency of the #$%^ United States would finally be enough to convey the message that they hate both political parties. If anything, they hate Republicans more.

But the Uni-Party can’t learn. The bureaucracy, the judiciary and congressional Republicans are all openly working for the “Resistance.” It’s President Trump against the world.


In Congress, the hate for Trump is personal. Not only did he throw a grenade into politicians’ little do-nothing club, but his very existence destroys their self-conception as people with a set of skills.

While Trump was making billions of dollars building skyscrapers, developing golf courses and starring on a hit reality TV show, members of Congress were slowly working their way up the political ladder — interning at think tanks and congressional offices, taking some small government job, then running for the House or Senate, and, hopefully, marrying a woman with a large inheritance.

A stunning number of senators and congressmen are supported by rich wives — Sens. John McCain, Mitch McConnell, Richard Blumenthal, John Kerry and Ron Wyden, and Reps. Michael McCaul, Scott Peters and Paul Ryan, to name a few. Is there any other profession with as high a percentage of men sponging off their wives’ inheritances?

Then a self-made billionaire came along, violated all the rules they had lived by, and swept aside more than a dozen experienced politicians just like themselves! Not only did Trump make his own money, but he beat them at the one thing they thought they knew how to do.

How else to explain Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s sneering dismissal of Trump’s request for an investigation into voter fraud, followed — one week later! — by McConnell’s assurance that the Senate would investigate former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s phone call to the Russian ambassador?

These useless Republicans allowed a Senate seat to be stolen from under their noses in Minnesota in 2008, giving Obama the vote he needed to pass Obamacare and destroy our health care.

No, don’t investigate that! Why bother with the very foundation of democracy? How will these nitwit politicians win praise from The Washington Post without devoting all their energy to some current leftist fetish, like Russia?

At least when liberals fixate on Russia, they have a clear subversive mission.

Congressional Republicans are just nincompoops. The only thing they know is: Imitate Reagan — from 30 years ago. It would make more sense for Republicans to demand that all air traffic controllers be fired for no reason than it is for them to keep treating Putin like it’s 1950 and he’s Stalin. (We know Putin isn’t Stalin because Democrats aren’t affectionately calling him “Uncle Joe” and spying for him.)

If senators have time for hearings on Flynn’s discussions with the Russian ambassador, could they possibly squeeze in an afternoon to repeal Obamacare?

How about the campaign pledge that rocketed Trump to the White House? According to The Washington Post, at the GOP retreat last month, when Trump talked about using tax policy to help pay for the wall, Republicans expressed “confusion about what exactly he meant.”

Are they retarded? (By “they,” I mean all Republicans in Congress, except Sen. Tom Cotton and about a half-dozen others.)

If Republicans had an ounce of self-respect, right after repealing Obamacare and writing a bill taxing remittances to make Mexico pay for the wall, they’d be impeaching the ridiculous Judge James Robart. Even lawyers who oppose Trump’s travel ban agree that Judge Robart made a complete ass of himself when he blocked the executive order.

The “Resistance” claims to be terrified that Trump will not be constrained by our Constitution, but they’re the ones who are perfectly willing to disregard the Constitution simply to stop Trump.

At least since the Chinese exclusion case of 1889, the Supreme Court has made blindingly clear that “the power of exclusion of foreigners” belongs to the political branches of government: Congress and the president — not to the judiciary.

The president’s authority to exclude aliens in the public interest has been reaffirmed in dozens of cases since then. Among them:

— Harisiades v. Shaughnessy (1952): “Any policy toward aliens is vitally and intricately interwoven with … the conduct of foreign relations, the war power, and the maintenance of a republican form of government. Such matters are so exclusively entrusted to the political branches of government as to be largely immune from judicial inquiry or interference.”

— Shaughnessy v. Mezei (1953): “Congress expressly authorized the President to impose additional restrictions on aliens entering or leaving the United States during periods of international tension and strife. … (The President) may shut out aliens whose ‘entry would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States.'”

— Mathews v. Diaz (1976): “(T)he responsibility for regulating the relationship between the United States and our alien visitors has been committed to the political branches of the Federal Government. … (Therefore, there is) a narrow standard of review of decisions made by the Congress or the President in the area of immigration and naturalization.”

— United States v. Valenzuela-Bernal (1982): “The power to regulate immigration — an attribute of sovereignty essential to the preservation of any nation — has been entrusted by the Constitution to the political branches of the Federal Government.”

— INS. v. Aguirre-Aguirre (1999): “(J)udicial deference to the Executive Branch is especially appropriate in the immigration context where officials ‘exercise especially sensitive political functions that implicate questions of foreign relations.'”

And on and on and on.

There are lots of constitutional questions that reasonable people can disagree about. Whether the president can exclude foreigners from seven terror-prone countries is not one of them.

But congressional Republicans are happy to ignore the Constitution, ignore the balance of powers, ignore written law, even to relinquish their own constitutional authority and let the courts run our foreign policy, just to be a part of the establishment’s STOP TRUMP movement.

Instead of neurotically fixating on Russia in some fantasy camp imitation of Reagan, circa 1982, what we’d like these worthless Republicans to do is: Imitate Trump — circa now.
Second of Four Parts…


The Republicans Face Flak

The fate of Obamacare dominates the news—again. Eight years ago, anti-Obamacare Republicans and Tea Partiers were on the offensive. Today, it’s pro-Obamacare Democrats, perhaps joined by “astroturf” activists, on the offense.

In the first installment of this series, we looked at the hot political issue of pharma drug prices. Now we’ll look at an even hotter political issue, the fate of Obamacare—and we’ll also see how it ties into the question of pharma drugs.

As Republicans grapple with Obamacare, the Main Stream Media headlines are, well, daunting. For example:

The New York Times, February 2, “GOP Campaign to Repeal Obamacare Stalls on the Details.”

CNN, February 13, “Republican lawmakers grow wary of ‘town hall’ events.”

Politico, February 14, “Republicans face anger over Obamacare repeal during town halls: Obamacare supporters showed up in huge numbers to voice concerns over repeal.”

The same day, Politico bannered this headline, too: “Doubts grow that GOP can repeal Obamacare.”

The Wall Street Journal, February 18, “Trump Agenda Is Beset by Opposition on Many Fronts.”

The Washington Post, February 19, “The prospects of a quick Obamacare repeal are sinking fast.”

You get the idea. And below the level of headlines, some of the texture might be unnerving to some—especially voters. In another New York Times story published on the 13th, Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) was quoted as telling a town hall in his suburban Milwaukee district:

It’s kind of like, you know, getting a 30,000-piece jigsaw puzzle for Christmas, and, you know, cleaning off the dining room table and seeing how long it takes to put all the 30,000 pieces together in the right place. It’s not going to be easy.

A 30,000-piece jigsaw puzzle? Has anyone, in the history of the universe, had an easy time putting one of those together? So what does that say about prospects for a smooth overhaul of Obamacare?

Whoa! Wait a second, the reader might protest: Those are all MSM articles. Of course, the MSM wants us to believe that Republicans are ineffectual and heartless, all at the same time. So are all those headlines skewed, maybe even “fake news”?

Maybe. Yet if that’s the case, then why are news items from the right not much better? On February 20, The Drudge Report blazed the headline, “Prospects of quick Obamacare repeal sinking fast.” And the next day, the 21st, a Drudge header was even more emphatic: “CONGRESS STALLS TRUMP AGENDA.”

Also from the right, Christopher Jacobs, writing for The Federalist on February 21, declared that the House Republican plan, as outlined in advance of actual legislation, was “a great disappointment.”

That same day, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Kentucky), the leading champion of libertarianism in Congress, was blunt:

My worry now is that many people are talking about a partial repeal of Obamacare. If you only repeal part of it and you leave some sort of Obamacare light, which some are talking about, my fear is the situation actually gets worse.

There’s a phrase: “Obamacare light.” And whether one sees that as an insult or a compliment, that does seem to be where Republicans are headed. Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), the influential chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, offered this cautious take on Obamacare’s possible future:

There are some of these provisions in the law that probably will stay, or we may modify them, but we’re going to fix things, we’re going to repair things.

Such incrementalist talk will no doubt infuriate many among the activist Republican base, but most GOP officeholders seem to be looking at bigger numbers—such as the national polls. And those polls show that only about a fifth or less of Americans support immediate repeal.

For example, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll from early January found that 47 percent of Americans want to keep Obamacare, 28 percent want to see it repealed only when a replacement plan is firmly in place—and just 20 percent want to see it repealed immediately. And a more recent Quinnipiac Poll found that support for immediate repeal is actually declining.

To put a Republican name next to these numbers, we might consider Rep. Tom McClintock, who for the last eight years has represented a district in north-central California. McClintock seems to have a safe seat, and yet as The Sacramento Bee notes, 47,000 people in his district now have health insurance thanks to a single provision of Obamacare, the expansion of Medicaid. We might observe that it’s the rare politician who wishes to antagonize so many potential voters, especially when the Democrats stand ready to contact and mobilize each and every one of them.

Thus McClintock has urged caution on his colleagues. As he told the assembled House Republicans at their recent retreat in Philadelphia, if they alter Obamacare, “Republicans will own that, lock, stock, and barrel.” In other words, for better or for worse, they will bear full responsibility for the American healthcare system.

Meanwhile, on Fox News, Charles Krauthammer made the same point:

The problem is that if you get it done, you own the entire system of American medicine. . . . If you replace, you are going to have to redo all of American medicine all over again, and then you become responsible. . . . So if something goes wrong in anybody’s life—denied coverage, lousy coverage, no available doctor, premiums increasing, whatever it is—whether or not it is caused by the replacement bill, you will be responsible for it and blamed.

In the meantime, the Democrats and the left are, indeed, turning up the heat. So should Republicans be worried? Some observers say yes.

On February 14, Jim VandeHei and David Nather, writing for the buzzy Beltway publication Axios, observed that some 147 million Americans benefit from government-backed health programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and VA benefits. The Democratic strategy, they added, is to scare all these beneficiaries about Obamacare repeal. That is, lump them all together and message them so that they all feel threatened. Will it work? We’ll have to wait to find out, of course, but here’s how the Axios scribblers see it in the meantime:

This year’s version of “government takeover” is “throwing 20 million people off of health insurance.” Democrats have been throwing that line around, even though Republicans are trying to find a replacement plan that covers people in other ways. (Their problem: They can’t guarantee it will cover all 20 million.)

Continuing, the two write:

Democrats in Congress are under direct orders from party leaders to crank up their own protests, to build on the loud and angry demonstrations at Republican town halls. And there is every reason to believe they will be highly effective. How do we know? Because Republicans exploited the same fears, energy and trends to do unto Democrats as Democrats are about to do unto them. [emphasis added]

Again, no one is an all-seeing oracle, but just on February 21, in the early days of Resistance Recess, came some indicators. One was this New York Times headline, surveying the activist activity surrounding Republican lawmakers’ meetings in Iowa and around the country: “Republicans Return to Town Halls, and Protesters Follow.” And this, from Politico: “This time, [Sen. Chuck] Grassley hears pro-Obamacare voices: The Iowa senator’s 2009 town halls helped kill bipartisanship for the health law. Now, the crowds worry about repeal.”

Once again we might ask: Is all this noise simply journalistic hype?

We’ll have a better handle on that question this spring, when Georgians go to the polls to fill the vacancy in the 6th Congressional district left by the departure of Tom Price, now Secretary of Health and Human Services. Price himself handily won re-election to the House last year, but Trump won the district by just a single percentage point. And so, of course, the Democrats will seek to make the voting a referendum on Trump, not Price.

The balloting takes place on April 18, and, if needed, a runoff will be held on June 20. In the meantime, we can observe that special elections are typically low-turnout affairs, with the advantage going to the side that can bring out the most “mad as hell” voters. So Peach State Republicans will have to get themselves energized to keep the seat.

Moreover, looking beyond that special election, we can see that the precise details of the Republicans’ repeal/replace/repair legislation will be vital to their fortunes in the 2018 midterms. So if we recall Rep. Sensenbrenner’s jigsaw puzzle analogy, we know that each tiny detail of the GOP plan will be critical.

We might further observe that it’s the American middle class that finds itself right smack in the middle of the Obamacare fight. And why is that? It’s because the rich and the upper-middle-class have all the insurance, and the money, that they need. And the poor already have Medicaid and charity. So that leaves the middle class at the mercy of the health-insurance tides.

Veteran health observer Robert Laszewski, a frequent critic of Obamacare, offers these words of warning to the GOP and, in particular, to the Trump coalition:

If you take Obamacare as it looks right now, [about half of enrollees] don’t get a subsidy because their incomes are too high. They make $90,000 or $100,000 a year but are in the individual market. These tend to be Trump supporters. So if [the administration’s forthcoming legislation] further destabilizes this thing and there are 20-to-50-percent rate increases, he’ll be screwing his own people.

Stepping back and surveying the situation, Chris Krueger, a Republican Capitol Hill veteran, now penning an influential newsletter for investors, observed on February 14:

The GOP is completely wrapped around the axle on ObamaCare and has shifted their messaging from “repeal” to “replace” to “repair.” This is a legislative Vietnam and it is going to take a while to find an exit strategy.

Yikes! Does the Republican healthcare effort resemble, even metaphorically, the disastrous US quagmire in Vietnam? Or is that just one man’s opinion? We’ll have to see. And it’s worth noting, of course, that no actual legislation has emerged. So we shouldn’t rush to judgment, even if the MSM wants us to.

And yet, probably even the most optimistic Republican has to admit that Obamacare has proven to be a thornier issue than the GOP first thought.

So some might be inspired to ask: What, exactly, have Congressional Republicans been doing for the past seven years? Yes, it was on March 23, 2010, that Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and so Republicans have had plenty of time to think through their preferred alternative.

The Bottom-Line Question of Health Insurance

So what’s been the hang-up on the Obamacare rethink? Part of the answer is that the GOP has never really come to grips with the basic question: Do Americans have a right to health insurance?

For some on the edges of American politics, the answer is simple: “No,” or, even, “Hell no.” The 2016 Libertarian Party platform, for example, is forthright in expressing that opinion:

We favor a free-market health care system. We recognize the freedom of individuals to determine the level of health insurance they want (if any).

Without a doubt, that’s an honest viewpoint. The problem for the Libertarians is that it’s not a widely held viewpoint; we might recall that the Libertarian presidential candidate last year, Gary Johnson, won 3.2 percent of the vote.

Meanwhile, Republicans, striving, as always, for actual majorities, have a more complex task: They must uphold Republican ideals of liberty and limited government, while at the same time keeping faith with the basic needs of American citizens.

Perhaps the most articulate champion of most Republicans’ thinking on healthcare is Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas. In his February 7 debate on CNN with Sen. Bernie Sanders, Cruz was a veritable machine gun of facts and figures, perforating the foibles of Obamacare. Hands down, Cruz won the debate on points.

Yet for his part, Sanders, in his dogmatically dogged way, had a powerful point of his own to make that night: People need health insurance. And so when a woman in the audience, one Neosho Ponder, a breast cancer survivor, told both Senators that she was worried about losing her healthcare without Obamacare, Sanders flashed a look of triumph.

Yet Cruz, fast on his feet as always, had a solid response: Republicans, he said, support prohibiting insurance companies from canceling coverage. And the Texan added that GOP proposals would “prohibit companies from jacking up the insurance rates because [people] got sick or injured.”

That was a good answer that seemed to satisfy the questioner, but now we are reminded of just how complicated the Republican repeal/replace/repair agenda will be. That is, how do we maximize freedom while at the same time guaranteeing coverage—and at reasonable prices? To be sure, there are answers to these questions, but they are complex answers. So the GOP will need Cruz-like lucidity to make their case to the American public.

As an aside, we might also note that Cruz has a second arrow in his healthcare quiver: the idea of medical cures. In that same February 7 debate, Cruz made the case for reform of the Food and Drug Administration, as well as other steps needed to spur medical innovation. As he said:

The four most devastating diseases in terms of human life and dollars [are] heart disease, Alzheimer’s, diabetes and cancer. We ought to be investing everything we can to cure those diseases. Just curing cancer, an incredible achievement, would save $50 trillion and countless lives across the globe.

So yes, Cruz has a point there, too. And yet as we all know, in 2017 the big healthcare fight will be over Obamacare.

So now we come to another dilemma of the health insurance debate, which is actually a kind of cosmic joke. And that is this: For the epic fight over Obamacare, pro and con, it’s a fact that today, after seven years of national health insurance, more than 28 million Americans do not have health insurance.

So we can see: For all the vast ambition of Obamacare’s conception, for all the political perdition suffered by Democratic politicians in the midterm elections, and for all the heavy-handedness of its actual implementation, Obamacare has not achieved its mission. It would seem that the American people will simply not sit still long enough to be enumerated by Uncle Sam.

Thus we might conclude that the dream of universal coverage is just that: a dream. That is, the goal of covering 100 percent of the population has become a kind of theology—and on earth at least, theologies are impossible to prove.

Indeed, as Republican health-policy veterans Tevi Troy and Lanhee Chen argued in The Washington Post on February 2, it might be best for Republicans to think of fresh ways to move toward the Obama goal of coverage—such as, for example, new kinds of tax credits—even as they recognize that perfection can be found only in a higher realm.

So now, down here on earth, we are starting to see the likely outcome of Republican healthcare efforts this year: Obamacare will go away, but the replacement will have unmistakable traces of, um, the Affordable Care Act.

That’s a solution that won’t please purists on either side, but as they say in DC, a good legislative product might not be a work of art, but it can be artful work.

Yet still, for all the storm and stress over health insurance, the point that Cruz makes about the cost of disease, and the value of cures, is worth bearing in mind. After all, health insurance is only as good as the health system backing it up. If an American is diagnosed with, say, pancreatic cancer, there’s an 80 percent likelihood that he or she will be dead within a year, health insurance or no health insurance. And if an American is diagnosed with Lou Gehrig’s Disease (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis), he or she is likely to need years, even decades, of costly care.

So once again, health insurance, by itself, is no answer to the human and financial cost of death and disability. The goal of human health requires professional caregivers and the best technology; financial mechanisms can play no more than a supporting role.

And so we come back to the issue of actual health, which we touched upon in the previous installment. Actual medicine offers the best and easiest hope for relief from horrible illnesses. And medicine is ultimately cheaper, too, because good health is less expensive than illness.

We’ll return to this topic, and to pharmaceutical drugs, in the next installment.
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Edward “Ned” Price, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) analyst who said he resigned last week because of President Donald Trump’s “disturbing” actions and that his “decision had nothing to do with politics,” donated thousands of dollars to Hillary Clinton’s failed 2016 presidential campaign.

“To be clear, my decision had nothing to do with politics, and I would have been proud to again work under a Republican administration open to intelligence analysis,” Price wrote in an op-ed he penned for the Washington Post Monday. He added, “As intelligence professionals, we’re taught to tune out politics” and noted that “Despite working proudly for Republican and Democratic presidents, I reluctantly concluded that I cannot in good faith serve this administration as an intelligence professional.”


Price suggested his decision emanated from President Trump’s “disturbing” actions.

However, public records indicate Price has been listed as a registered Democrat in D.C. since 2008. Further, Federal Election Commission (FEC) records show that Price donated thousands of dollars to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.

These records indicate that on August 21, 2016, he made two donations to Clinton’s campaign. Price donated $2,300 to the DNC’s Hillary Victory Fund and another $2,700 to Hillary For America.

According to NPR, “The Hillary Victory Fund is a joint fundraising committee for Hillary for America, the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic committees of 32 states and Puerto Rico.”

However, Price’s deep ties to the Democratic Party reach back over 15 years. According to his LinkedIn profile, Price campaigned for Dallas’s former Democratic Mayor Ron Kirk in his unsuccessful bid for the Senate in 2002. Kirk lost to then-Texas Attorney General, Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX).

Then, in November 2013, Price contributed $250 to Massachusetts Democrat Seth Moulton in his bid for Congress, according to FEC records.

In his op-ed, Price also attempted to echo rhetoric from the left alleging Trump’s chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon was “a media champion of white nationalism.” Those false smears have repeatedly been discredited by individuals from all over the political spectrum.

Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter and Periscope @AdelleNaz
Michigan’s Service Employee International Union (SEIU) has confirmed it has removed two top officials from their positions amid an investigation into a large amount of money missing from the organization’s treasury.

The 9,000-member healthcare workers union announced that Union President Marge Robinson and the union’s secretary-treasurer Shalaya Bryant were summarily removed from office while the investigation into the missing funds continues.


The union refused to put a dollar amount on the missing money, but it is clearly substantial since the two well-known, and active officers of the union were removed from office.

“The union took steps to bring in trustees at the local and launch a pretty expansive investigation into what could have been going on here,” union trustee Inga Skippings told Fox 2.

The union said that the missing funds came to light after a whistleblower came forward to reveal abuse in the union’s vacation and financial loan policies.

“In 30 days there will be a hearing that lays out the findings, it will be open to the membership and we think about the next steps from there,” Skippings added.

SEIU secretary treasurer Shalaya Bryant earns an annual salary plus benefits of $103,493 a year, according to records. Margaret Robinson, though, earns far and away more than that as president of the Michigan chapter of the SEIU. Robinson takes in $209,889 annually according to records.

The Michigan SEIU lost 80 percent of its membership in recent years, due mainly to the state putting an end to the automatic skimming of union dues from healthcare workers’ paychecks, a law giving workers the first opportunity they’ve ever had to determine on their own if they wish to be union members or not.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com.
Two workers at an assisted care facility in Ohio are facing felony sex charges after allegedly sexually exploiting a 100-year-old dementia patient, reports reveal.

Police in Sandusky, Ohio, arrested 26-year-old Brittany Fultz after a video recording revealed her performing a lap dance on the elderly patient, local CBS WTOL reports.


The video was recorded in December at The Commons of Providence in Sandusky, an assisted care facility.

Another nurse at the facility assisted Fultz in making the lap dance video but later turned the video over to her superiors. Both were fired from the nursing home and Fultz was charged with gross sexual imposition, a fourth-degree felony.

The Commons Executive Director, Staci Lehmkuhl released a statement on the incident:

On February 12, the Executive Director at the center learned of an incident involving a staff member making inappropriate comments and gestures to a resident. It was reported immediately to the local police department and Ohio Department of Health. The employee was placed on administrative leave and has since been terminated. We are cooperating with local police who are handling the investigation and we will not comment further about the ongoing investigation.

Police report that the video was never shared beyond the two suspects.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail.com.
WASHINGTON – Those who have served with and worked alongside Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, President Trump’s new national security adviser, describe a brilliant leader and military strategist they would follow anywhere.

“I’d follow him to battle in hell if he’d asked me to,” said Army Sgt. Maj. Donald Sparks, who deployed with him to Iraq in 2005.


Sparks was with then-Col. McMaster, commander of the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, when a roadside bomb hit his Humvee on April 17, 2005, in Latifyah, Iraq.

Sparks recalls that after exiting the Humvee to repel the ensuing attack, “eventually I found myself back to back with my commander.”

“That’s the type of leader he was and is,” he said. “He’ll be right there in the thick of the fight and his presence will calm those in the fight.”

It was also the first time during the Third Army Cavalry’s deployment that a soldier was killed. The attack was detailed in an April 21, 2005 Washington Post story titled “Horror Glimpsed from the Inside of a Humvee in Iraq.”

“I watched him pin Purple Hearts on the wounded, speak to grieving troopers at memorial services, and shed tears for the fallen,” Sparks added. “I could go on and on. … He looks great with those stars.”

Sparks is not the only person to revere the commander, whose efforts in the northern Iraqi city of Tal Afar is credited with helping inform the counterinsurgency strategy that Gen. David Petraeus implemented throughout the country.

Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR), who recommended McMaster for the position, also served under him in Iraq. Cotton submitted his resignation from the army in 2007, partly because he was passed over for a promotion to a one-star general. He later rescinded that resignation to deploy to Afghanistan.

“H.R. McMaster is one of the finest combat leaders of our generation and a great strategic mind. He is a true warrior scholar, and I’m confident he will serve both the president and the country well,” he said.

Ret. Army Col. Joseph Collins, director of the Center for Complex Operations at National Defense University, added, “He is also a lovely man who will call and email his friends and subordinates in their times of need. I don’t know anyone who has worked for him who doesn’t admire him greatly.”

In Tal Afar, McMaster commanded the 3,500-soldier brigade, defying the official strategy of training Iraqi forces to effect a quick withdrawal. Instead, he fanned his forces out in the town, establishing dozens of small outposts and focusing on improving security and restoring services for civilians.

The strategy, along with a troop surge, would help turn the tide of the war.

McMaster, 54, has built a reputation as one of the army’s best thinkers of his generation. He is frequently described as a “100-pound brain.”

“He’s a very thoughtful, deep thinker. He reads Thucydides — he was quoting him the other day at an event at IISS,” said Mark Fitzpatrick, executive director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies-Americas.

Friends also say he is honorable.

“He is brilliant and principled. He speaks truth to power and that has occasionally rubbed some of his peers and superiors the wrong way,” said Collins.

McMaster was twice passed over for promotion to general, before Petraeus, one of his biggest supporters, and then-Defense Secretary Robert Gates rallied support for him.

McMaster wrote the book on military commanders speaking truth to power, which some say could cause him to collide with others at the White House.

His PhD dissertation at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill would later become the 1997 book Dereliction of Duty, written about how the joint chiefs of staff did not stand up to President Lyndon B. Johnson during the Vietnam War, even though they disagreed with his strategy.

He also served on an informal “Council of Colonels,” created by former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Adm. Peter Pace to critique the Iraq War strategy.

“He has a forceful personality. He doesn’t suffer fools well. If he thinks somebody’s wrong, he won’t hesitate to say so,” Fitzpatrick added.

Fitzpatrick predicts McMaster will get along with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who reportedly had battled over political appointments with former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, a retired army lieutenant general.

“They’re kind of birds of a feather. … I think he’ll play well with [Secretary Rex] Tillerson at the State Department. But others in the White House — that’s the big question. How well they play with him is maybe the question.”

The West Point graduate has not served a long tour at the Pentagon or Washington, D.C., which could make it challenging to help coordinate President Trump’s national security strategy among the different agencies.

Regardless, McMaster has many fans rooting for him, even among Trump’s fiercest critics.

Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) said in a statement, “I could not imagine a better, more capable national security team than the one we have right now.”

McMaster was previously director of the Army Capabilities Integration Center at Fort Eustis, Virginia. He is also known for commanding a unit during one of the biggest tank battles of the Persian Gulf war in 1991, where he earned the Silver Star.
Ohio Republican Rep. Jim Jordan told Breitbart News that Republicans on Capitol Hill must remember the GOP promised over the last six political cycles to repeal Obamacare; legislation that passed based on nine lies Democrats told about President Barack Obama’s landmark healthcare reform.

“Look, we know what a disaster it is,” said Jordan. “We all know the false statements which were told to the American people when this bill passed.”


“We know the high cost of the premiums, the high deductibles – just the disaster that is Obamacare – I start from that premise,” he said.

These are the nine lies Jordan said were told about the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act:

1. Like your plan? You can keep your plan.

2. Like your doctor? You can keep your doctor.

3. Premiums will go down.

4. Premiums will go down at an average of $2,500.

5. Deductibles will go down.

6. The healthcare.gov website will work.

7. The healthcare.gov website will be secure.

8. Emergency room visits will go down.

9. The 23 healthcare cooperatives will be the end-all, save-all, be-all.

Jordan is quick to point out that of the 23 cooperatives, 18 of them went bankrupt within a two-year window.

The congressman said Congress needs to repeal and replace Obamacare during this session of Congress. “That is what we told the voters and what they expect.”

“That is what we told the voters and what they expect,” he said.

“When Obamacare’s gone, health care becomes less expensive, and it gets better,” he said. “Let’s get rid of it as quickly.”

Once the repeal is complete, Jordan said conservatives are prepared to offer a replacement.

“We should have a replacement that empowers people and families and communities and doctors–not like Obamacare, which is all about Washington.”
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, spoke with Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Wednesday about President Trump’s new Department of Homeland Security (DHS) immigration enforcement guidelines.

Krikorian said, “No longer will any classes of illegal immigrants be exempt from potential enforcement. And that really underlines the difference with the Obama administration’s approach to illegal immigration, which was that, basically, all illegal aliens got to stay unless there were some extraordinary reasons to deport them.”


Krikorian said under Trump “we’re back to a more traditional law enforcement approach, where all illegal aliens are potentially deportable.”

Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern.

LISTEN:
A group of lawmakers is planning to request a congressional investigation of a $418 million U.S. weapons sale to Kenya approved by the Obama administration on its last day in office.

The sale, approved by the State Department and privately notified to Congress on January 19, would allow Kenya to buy 14 weaponized crop-duster-like planes — including two trainer planes and services, for missions against terrorist group al-Shabaab.


The deal was publicly announced the Monday after Trump’s inauguration.

A handful of lawmakers, led by Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC), are questioning why the contract to produce the planes was awarded to major defense firm L3 Technologies — which has never produced such a plane — while a smaller, disabled veteran-owned company in North Carolina that already make those planes at a lower cost was not considered.

The Mooresville, N.C. company, IOMAX USA Inc., costed out 14 planes at $237 million dollars, according to a Budd aide.

“It looks like politics,” Budd said in a phone interview with Breitbart News on Monday. “Why are they sending it to someone that’s produced zero, for twice the price? This is inappropriate.”

Later this week, Budd and several other GOP congressmen are planning to request the non-partisan investigation.

It is not just Republicans puzzled by the matter. Georgia Democrat Sanford Bishop will join Republicans in signing a letter being sent to the Kenyan ambassador to the U.S. on Tuesday.

The letter, obtained first by Breitbart News, says, “We believe Kenya would benefit by exploring its options in regard to this acquisition.”

“We ask that the Government of Kenya take these facts, in particular the prospect of an ongoing congressional investigation of this sale, under consideration as it decides whether or not to proceed with this arms purchase,” says the letter.

The request for an investigation comes after the lawmakers have unsuccessfully tried to figure out how the New York-based L3 received the “sole-source” primary contract, which means there is only one known source for the equipment requested, or only one single supplier that can fulfill the requirements.

IOMAX was unaware of the contract until the State Department, which approves all foreign military sales, publicly announced it on Jan. 23, the Monday after Trump was sworn in.

Typically, with a foreign military sale, an ally would notify and work with the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, a Pentagon agency, to request weapons.

DSCA would then work with the nation to specify requirements and write a Letter of Request for the weapons. The letter would be sent to an “implementing agency.” After price and other details are worked out, the Pentagon would issue a recommendation, and the State Department would approve or disapprove the sale. The DSCA would receive about a four percent cut of the total sale.

Lawmakers suspect, though have no evidence, that in this case, the implementing agency — an Air Force acquisition office, known as the “Big Safari” at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, steered the contract to L3.

The Air Force directed all inquiries to DSCA and the State Department, which is in charge of the process.

A State Department official, in emails obtained by Breitbart News, said in justifying L3’s selection that the Kenyan Ministry of Defense “conducted extensive market research.” At the same time, the official said the State Department did not possess that research. An Air Force official also said in an email that it was not provided the market research.

Lawmakers question whether Kenya did its own extensive research. The aide said Kenya initially requested MOOG, an ordnance company, to produce the planes, according an Air Force response to congressional inquiries.

That request somehow got “clarified” to L3, who will modify the requested Air Tractor planes into weaponized versions.

“We believe that the Air Force likely did something that had MOOG get replaced with L3,” the aide said.

The aide said it doesn’t make sense, especially since IOMAX first began producing the weaponized planes in 2009 and has dropped more than 2,000 bombs on al-Shabaab already.

IOMAX had used the Air Tractor airframe in its earlier versions, but switched to Thrush, based in Albany, Georgia. It currently has almost 50 of the planes in service, including in the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, and Jordan, the aide said.

The planes were first designed after the Army’s 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment requested them for Yemen, the aide said. IOMAX’s founder, Ron Howard, is a retired Army aviator with the unit. He founded the company with his son in 2001.

Budd said he is looking out for jobs in North Carolina. IOMAX, which takes in about $1 billion a year in sales compared to L3’s $10 billion, has 115 employees in his district, with 49 percent of them veterans who make an average of $115,000 a year — many of them special operations forces veterans.

“Our first interest is to look out for jobs in the district. These are guys who are cutting sheet metal and doing rivets at the same time as those who are installing weaponized system…It’s a whole work force down there,” Budd said. “It’s infuriating that they’d be cut out of a deal like this.”

“They have to earn this deal on their own,” he added. “We can’t get the deal for them. But we want them to have a fair shot at it…They shouldn’t catch the brunt of politics.”

The L3 contract would primarily benefit its Platform Integration Division in Waco, Texas. An L3 spokesman did not respond to a phone call asking for comment.

Budd said the current deal is not a good one for the Kenyans either. He met with the Kenyan Deputy Chief of Mission last Monday, who was allegedly “flabbergasted” they were potentially paying almost $200 million more than necessary.

“We’ve had several Kenyans reach out and thank us,” he said.

Several Kenyan analysts also questioned the sale on Twitter, with the accompanying hashtag #KDFWeaponsScam. KDF is short for Kenyan Defense Force.

We could have bought 5 of these Bell Boeing V-22 Ospreys at the $418 million expenditure #KDFWeaponsScam pic.twitter.com/2XXdS9g7VT — The Muthoka® (@MuthokaTito) February 17, 2017

Although the 30-day notification period for Congress before a foreign military sale can go forth ended Sunday, lawmakers can still halt the sale by passing a resolution of disapproval.

Budd also introduced a joint resolution in the House earlier this month to halt the sale. If the resolution is adopted, it would be the first time Congress has voted to block a foreign arms deal since 1986.

Co-sponsors of the resolution include Reps. Meadows, Jones, Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), and Gary Palmer (R-AL).
Former President Barack Obama’s presidential library could require a $1.5 billion endowment, according to architects in charge of designing the library.

The amount is three times more than the money raised to build the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas that opened in 2013, the New York Post’s Page Six reported.


Architects Tod Williams and Billie Tsien noted that Obama declined to do a lot of fundraising for the center while in office, and said the reason the center would be so expensive was because of the high cost of building both a library and a museum.

The architects say the originally estimated cost of the buildings at $200 million is more likely to be closer to $300 million.

Another reason for the higher price tag is because recent federal regulations require that former presidents have larger endowments to pay for annual operating costs at the libraries.

“It won’t be easy,” Williams said. “It’s not just about preserving the past. It’s about the future.”

NBC Chicago reports that Obama is about to begin a major fundraising effort for the project as the former president met with community leaders and others to discuss the Obama Foundation.
United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley issued a scathing criticism of the UN Security Council over their “anti-Israel” bias on Thursday after emerging from her first regular monthly meeting at the international body.

“I have to admit; it was a bit strange,” Haley said of the council’s agenda.


The former South Carolina governor noted that while it is the UN Security Council’s mission to discuss ways to maintain international peace and security, their meeting on the Middle East failed to address some of the region’s most pressing issues — namely, Hezbollah’s illegal buildup of rockets in Lebanon, the money and weapons the Iran regime is supplying to its terrorist entities throughout Latin America and the Middle East, ways to defeat the Islamic State, and how to hold Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad accountable for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of his countrymen.

“Instead, the meeting focused on criticizing Israel, the one true democracy in the Middle East,” Haley said. She added that while she is “new” to the United Nations, she is well-seasoned in her understanding of the UN Security Council’s generations-long bias against Israel. “I’m here to say the United States will not turn a blind eye to this anymore,” she said. “I’m here to underscore the ironclad support of the United States for Israel.”

She called out the “breathtaking” double standards inherent in the Security Council.

“Incredibly, the UN Department of Political Affairs has an entire department devoted to Palestinian affairs,” she said. “Imagine that. There is not a division devoted to illegal missile launches from North Korea. There is no division devoted to the world’s number one state sponsor of terror, Iran.”

Last December, the Obama administration fired a parting shot at Israel and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by departing from longstanding U.S. policy of vetoing anti-Israel resolutions and instead abstained from voting on a Security Council resolution (UN Res 2334) calling for a halt to Israeli construction in the West Bank and eastern Jerusalem.

Former U.S. ambassador to the UN Samantha Power cast the abstaining vote on behalf of the Obama administration. An article in Foreign Policy describes Power’s final act of defiance against Trump as her refusal to take Haley’s phone call prior to the December vote. “Power’s advisors suspected Haley would try to persuade Power to veto the resolution, and she did not take the call,” Foreign Policy wrote.

“We will never repeat the terrible mistake of Resolution 2334 and allow one-sided security council resolutions to condemn Israel,” Haley said. “Instead, we will push for action on the real threats we face in the Middle East.”

In January, a group of Republican and Democratic senators signed onto bipartisan legislation that rejects UN Res 2334 and calls for it to be either “repealed or fundamentally altered so that it is no longer one-sided.”

Because the United States is a permanent member of the UN Security Council, a veto from them would have automatically prevented the resolution from passing.

She also pointed out the rise of anti-Semitism in the world, which has seen an uptick over the last few years, and reiterated the Trump administration’s commitment to seeing to a peaceful solution to the Israel-Palestinian conflict “that is negotiated directly between the two parties.”

Despite Friday’s meeting, Haley said “there is good news” outside of the UN.

“Israel’s place in the world is changing,” Haley said. “Israel is building up new diplomatic relationships; more and more countries recognize how much Israel contributes to the world.” She said they realize that Israel is “a beacon of stability in a troubled region.” She concluded her speech by saying, “it is the UN’s anti-Israel bias that is long overdue for change… The United States will not hesitate to speak out against these biases in defense of our friend and ally Israel.”

Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter and Periscope @AdelleNaz
To paraphrase the immortal words of Britney Spears, “Oops, climate scientists did it again!”

The award-winning scientist responsible for creating, collecting, and maintaining the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) data archive, John Bates, recently disclosed leading NOAA’s climate scientists violated the agency’s rules, rushing to publication data which had yet to be tested and confirmed in order to influence the outcome of the Paris climate negotiations in 2015.


In a second breach of agency protocol, the scientists involved, led by Tom Karl, failed to properly archive and store their datasets for testing and public disclosure.

Subsequently, some of the original datasets were lost when the computer used to process the data suffered a complete failure.

Karl, et al.’s 2015 “pause busting” research purported to show, contrary to every temperature dataset in existence at the time, Earth had not experienced an 18-year pause in rising temperatures, claiming instead everyone else’s data had been wrong and temperatures had continued to rise at an alarming rate right along with carbon-dioxide levels. As Bates put it, Karl’s team put their “thumb on the scale” to produce the results they wanted.

Much of the climate science community became suspicious of Karl’s claims over the months after the study was released, when it was discovered in the words of David Rose in the Daily Mail, “[Karl, et al.] took reliable readings from buoys but then ‘adjusted’ them upwards – using readings from seawater intakes on ships that act as weather stations … even though readings from the ships have long been known to be too hot.” As a result, the ocean temperature dataset used by Karl exaggerated the warming.

When you take good data and mix it with bad data and then average it, you no more produce reliable results than adding muddy river water to purified bottle water produces safe drinking water.

Karl’s actions show climate scientists wedded to the theory humans are causing catastrophic climate change learned nothing from the Climategate scandal of 2009. In Climategate, hacked e-mail exchanges between prominent climate scientists advising world leaders on climate policy exposed the scientists behaving badly.

The scientists involved used a “trick” to remove inconvenient data from their datasets to “hide the decline,” in a critical set of proxy temperatures. In addition, the e-mails showed they collaborated to persecute and have fired an editor of a prominent climate science journal who allowed articles questioning the extent of humanity’s role in global warming to be published.

The e-mails also showed the scientists actively sought to avoid releasing their taxpayer-funded data to other researchers and government bodies with oversight responsibility for testing and confirmation.

In the aftermath of the Climategate scandal, in order to ensure scientific integrity and regain the public’s trust, scientific bodies called on scientists to allow access to their raw data, assumptions, methodologies, and software and to promptly and completely respond to all Freedom of Information Act and government requests for information.

Karl and his team not only violated NOAA’s own protocols, they also ignored all the suggestions made by the scientific community to improve transparency and accountability for research. When the U.S. House of Representatives’ House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the committee with oversight over federally funded research, requested and eventually subpoenaed NOAA’s documentation for its pause-busting claims, NOAA refused to turn over all the materials requested, citing concerns about confidentiality and the integrity of the scientific process. New investigations are being launched into NOAA’s research in light of Bates’ disclosures.

Transparency is a paramount virtue in science since scientists can only produce discoveries that expand human knowledge and further human welfare when different teams of researchers collaborate by sharing data, assumptions, and methodologies; exchange theories and ideas; and review and test each other’s work. For NOAA, sound science took a backseat to scoring a political victory.

Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, yet world leaders ignored this fact when they pointed to NOAA’s claims the world was warming, despite other research showing no warming for 18 years. Disturbingly, this research of dubious merit provided impetus for producing the climate change treaty agreed to by leaders of more than 190 nations in Paris in December 2015.

These are dark times for climate science, and it has nothing to do with Donald Trump being in the White House. Let’s hope future climate charlatans are exposed to the light of day before they do further damage.

H. Sterling Burnett, Ph.D. (hburnett@heartland.org) is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute, a nonpartisan, nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights, Illinois.
The forecast is for more rain around the Oroville Dam – and potential disaster for hundreds of thousands of Californians living downstream from its poorly designed emergency spillway.

Many bear responsibility for the real prospect of a catastrophic failure of that spillway. But ultimately, the buck stops with an obscure government agency 3,000 miles away: the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).


FERC has known about systemic defects of the Oroville Dam for over a decade. In fact, back in 2005, this dam was supposed to be relicensed for fifty-years. But objections were heard from various citizen groups. They warned about soil-erosion at the emergency spillway giving rise to the potential for its catastrophic failure during high water conditions like those now present. Their calls for the spillway to be reinforced with concrete were ignored by the FERC which, instead, began granting annual one-year operating licenses in 2007.

Those licenses have been renewed on the basis of a “Potential Failure Mode Analysis” of the Oroville Dam. According to an October 14, 2016 letter sent by FERC’s Office of Energy Projects to the California Department of Water Resources, the latest Failure Analysis – which was submitted to FERC in December 2014 – was “a significant improvement” over its predecessor. The public is being kept in the dark about this justification for ignoring the actual, high potential for failure of this dam, however, because FERC treats these these Failure Analysis documents as secrets.

Unfortunately, this catastrophe-in-the-making in California is just one example of FERC’s shortcomings. The agency is overwhelmed by its extensive regulatory responsibilities and it is often captured by regulated interests. Consider the following contributing factors:

FERC is charged with overseeing far more than the nation’s dams. Each year, the agency processes over 1,000 orders for, among other things, electric utilities, natural gas pipelines, and hydroelectric facilities, with limited time for any individual matter, no matter how important.

FERC routinely adjudicates complex technical matters, yet many FERC commissioners in recent years have been lawyers, congressional staffers or lobbyists.

In addition, and especially of late, the five ostensibly “independent” FERC Commissioners have taken advantage of a “revolving door” between their official positions and well-paid jobs at entities they regulate – or the law firms or lobbying shops that serve them. For example, former FERC Commissioner Phillip Moeller left the commission to be a lobbyist at the Edison Electric Institute; former Commissioner Tony Clark left to become a counsel at a law firm serving utilities. (For more evidence of such inherent conflicts of interest, see here, here and here.)

Given this sweetheart-deal dynamic, it should come as no surprise that FERC has earned a reputation for serving as a “rubber stamp” for industry interests.

Bad as the dangers associated with FERC’s failure to assure the safety of the Oroville dam are, these factors have contributed to the agency’s culpability for even more serious malfeasance: the uncorrected vulnerability of the U.S. electric grid to physical, cyber and electromagnetic pulse attack, as well as to the effects of intense solar storms.

Should the grid – our most critical of critical infrastructures – suffer widespread and sustained collapse as a result of one or the other of those very real dangers becoming reality, the consequences would dwarf those associated with massive flooding of areas below the Oroville Dam.

These potential catastrophes underscore a long-neglected reality: The safety and security of the American people requires that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission have as commissioners individuals who have been, are and will remain genuinely independent from the industries that their agency regulates. This is especially so as the commissioners are, by statute, essentially unaccountable to either the President or Congress.

As it happens, three out of five FERC commissioner slots are currently open. It is imperative that President Trump nominates, and the Senate confirms, only commissioners who will have the requisite technical expertise, independence and vision to use their considerable power to protect the people of this country, and not simply the utilities they regulate.
After violent leftist “Black Resistance” protests Friday night in North Philadelphia led to the injury of three police officers and the arrest of four people, outspoken Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke appeared on an episode of Fox & Friends Weekend and said “This stuff is disastrous. It’s going to get cops hurt; it’s going to get cops killed.”

On Friday, over one hundred protesters affiliated with the Philly Coalition for REAL Justice gathered near City Hall, blocked traffic, and began violent confrontations with the police. During the clashes, three officers were injured after being hit with pepper spray and black spray paint. The leftist protesters burned an American flag.


As FoxNews reported, Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke said he “wants to see cops advance as soon as vandalism and violence break out at these types of protests, since it is impossible in large crowds to determine exactly who is causing the commotion” and went on to say, “It is unreasonable for us to determine who are the peaceful protesters and who are the resistors,” Clarke said. “This is a resistance movement.”

It is not the first time that Clarke has had harsh words about an incident in Philadelphia. In 2015 there was a point-blank ambush of a police officer carried out by Edward Archer, who said he was acting in the name of ISIS. The incident was caught on video.

As Breitbart News reported, Sheriff Clark said the man “should be charged with treason … charged as an enemy combatant, held at Gitmo, and he should not have access to American courts.”
President Donald Trump condemned anti-Semitism in response to a series of vandalism events targeting Jewish sites.

“Anti-Semitism is horrible and it’s going to stop,” Trump told NBC News after visiting the African-American museum in Washington D.C. on Tuesday. “And, it’s gonna stop and it has to stop.”


Trump’s response came as the media criticized him for not condemning the vandalism forcefully enough.

“This tour was a meaningful reminder of why we have to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms,” Trump said. “The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are a painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil.”

During the museum visit, Trump was asked by reporters if he would visit the Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C. as well.

“I will. I will be doing it soon,” he said. “Very important. Very important for me.”

Trump has battled media accusations that he is implicitly indifferent to anti-Semitism, despite his repeated support for Israel and his Jewish son-in-law Jared Kushner and daughter Ivanka Trump and their three grandchildren.

“I am the least anti-Semitic person that you’ve ever seen in your entire life,” Trump said emphatically during a press conference last week, when he was questioned by reporter about “an uptick in anti-Semitism.”

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu defended Trump from critics during a press conference at the White House.

“I’ve known the president and I’ve known his family and his team for a long time. There is no greater supporter of the Jewish people and the Jewish state than president Donald Trump,” Netanyahu said. “I think we should put that to rest.”
As President Donald Trump’s war with the establishment press gets hotter, the administration has hired former Karl Rove acolyte Mike Dubke to his communications team.

Republican communications professionals in Washington, D.C., were quick to praise Dubke, though some were surprised that he took the job. “I’m confused why he’s taking this, to be honest,” said one communications professional who was familiar with Dubke’s work. “He has always shied away from spotlight.”


Another Washington communications professional described Dubke as a “behind-the-scenes operator” who was confident and capable but had no love for the mainstream media.

That kind of experience could serve the administration on daily communications strategy. Rather than personal duels with the press, Dubke’s role will likely focus on messaging strategy.

Dubke, a Buffalo native, came to Washington, D.C., as an intern in the George W. Bush White House and knows White House press secretary Sean Spicer. Though arguably a member of the Washington establishment, one colleague noted that Dubke was “too smart” to publicly disparage Trump during the election.

“I’ve known Mike Dubke for several years. He is a very smart, capable, and widely respected political operative,” Republican consultant Matt Mackowiak said in a statement to Breitbart News. “The Trump White House is lucky to have someone of his caliber join the West Wing in a grueling and crucial job such as communications director. He understands communications, strategy, and tactics, and how to use them.”

Mackowiak has openly criticized Trump in the past but was optimistic that Dubke could “advance President Trump’s priorities and effectively respond to unyielding media hysteria.”

As Breitbart News reported, some of Trump’s allies were concerned that the president was not hiring a loyalist to his team. Dubke is friends with Carl Forti, Rove’s right-hand man in the political arena and the main strategist for American Crossroads. He is also a partner with Forti for the Black Rock Group public relations firm.

Brian Jones, another one of Dubke’s partner at Black Rock Group, told the Washington Post that he was a “happy warrior” who was an effective messenger.

“Mike is not interested in being a public face,” he said. “He’s interested in rolling up his sleeves, trying to figure out how to make sure the messages that the White House wants to get out are getting out through the right channels.”

The firm is recognized by fellow professionals in Washington, D.C., for its political success, particularly during the 2014 Senate midterm campaigns. Dubke worked with politicians like Alaska’s Dan Sullivan, who toppled Democratic Senator Mark Begich.

Sullivan praised the White House hire in a statement to reporters.

“I couldn’t think of a better choice for White House communications director than Mike Dubke,” he said. “Over the past few years, he has been a trusted adviser of mine and is a seasoned communicator with more than 25 years of experience in Washington, D.C.”

Dubke’s messaging success outside the beltway drew praise from staff who worked with him on campaigns.

“If the press thinks they can get him dejected by the daily Trump pile-on, they have another think coming,” one communications staffer who worked with Dubke said.