EXCLUSIVE: Based just four miles from the Pentagon in northern Virginia is an innocuous-sounding online school for "management and technology" – which a Fox News investigation reveals has been at the center of multiple federal probes about its leadership's alleged ties to the Chinese military and whether thousands of records from U.S. service members were compromised.

The University of Management and Technology in Rosslyn, Va., which opened in 1998, touts a campus in Beijing and “partnerships” with universities around the world. The U.S. taxpayer-funded school claims to have had 5,000 graduates in the last five years and to be "especially proud of our students stationed in US military bases around the globe."

However, there is another side to the school's leadership that drew the attention of the FBI, the Justice Department, the Pentagon, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) since at least 2012 -- and perhaps as early as 2009.

In December 2012, the FBI made two very public raids of UMT and the northern Virginia home of university president Yanping Chen Frame and its academic dean, her husband J. Davidson Frame. Documents reviewed by Fox News show it was a counter-intelligence case, known as a "200d," one of the most highly sensitive categories for a federal probe.

Photos, exclusively obtained by Fox News, appear to show Chen as a young officer in the People's Liberation Army, the military wing of China's communist party. Another photo shows Frame saluting his wife, Chen, who is holding a uniform. Three independent experts said it was a Chinese military colonel’s uniform.

Expand / Contract This undated photo appears to show Yanping Chen Frame before she came to a U.S. graduate school.

Yet since those FBI raids, UMT has continued to collect more than $6 million from Defense Department tuition assistance programs as well as the Department of Veterans Affairs through the post-9/11 GI bill.

"It's a bad deal for the soldiers, and it's a bad deal for the taxpayer," Stephen Rhoads, a military veteran turned whistleblower who says he worked with the FBI on the case, told Fox News in an exclusive interview. "Nobody's getting what they paid for."

Rhoads said he worked at UMT recruiting vets when the FBI approached him in 2012 regarding the federal investigation. Emails and other documents reviewed by Fox News corroborate key elements of Rhoads' story.

"One of the first sentences she [Chen] ever threw out -- after she found out I was an Army officer, was, ‘Well … I was a colonel in the army,’" Rhoads explained. "During our first face-to-face encounter, absolutely ... she did not deny it."

Rhoads said he thought Chen meant the U.S. Army, and asked whether she trained in Texas. "She laughed and said, ‘Oh, no, I was in the Chinese army, you know.’”

Chen, 64, came to the United States in 1987 from Beijing on a non-immigrant visa with her daughter Lele Wang. The Chinese government funded Chen's research at George Washington University where she received a Ph.D. in Public Policy in 1999, the year after UMT was created.

While Rhoads says Chen was upfront about her Chinese military experience, he claimed she hid those ties on immigration applications. Fox News reviewed Chen's immigration records where she consistently denied ties to the Chinese or any foreign military. When asked, "Have you ever been a member of, or in any way affiliated with, the communist party or any other totalitarian regime?" Chen checked "no." She would later become a naturalized U.S. citizen.

While there are no U.S. laws preventing a naturalized citizen from running a school like UMT, the Fox News investigation found that Chen's ties to the Chinese military appear to run deep.

Three outside experts consulted by Fox News confirmed the authenticity of the Chinese uniforms in the photos of Chen and Frame.

"If somebody was wearing that uniform, I would say that there's a very great likelihood that they were in the People's Liberation Army," Dennis Blasko, a leading Chinese military expert said, referring to the photo of what appears to be Chen in uniform.

Asked about the photo of Frame saluting his wife, Blasko observed, "This is a P.L.A. officer's uniform — active duty — from between 1987 and 2007 ... And from the epaulettes, we can see this -- three stars and two red stripes would be a full colonel."

Blasko emphasized that P.L.A. insignia can only be purchased with the permission of the Chinese military, and "you would have to have a certificate from your unit to buy [it.]"

Blasko, a West Point graduate who worked as a military attache in China, wrote "The Chinese Army Today: Tradition and Transformation for the 21st Century," one of the definitive books about the Chinese military.

In her George Washington University dissertation, Chen thanks her father, a P.L.A. general, who directed arms and technology development. "My father, General Chen Bin, gave me the inspiration to pursue this area of study," Chen wrote. "As former Chairman of COSTIND (1982-87), he was an important player in supporting and directing the (Chinese) space program."

In her 2012 FBI interview, Chen denied she ever was a colonel in the P.L.A., emphasizing she had worked as a doctor in the Chinese space program. Chen said it was a “civilian agency.” The interview summary suggests federal agents challenged Chen’s characterization. Outside experts told Fox News the Chinese civilian and military space programs are intertwined.

While Chen's immigration application is more than a decade old, and past the five-year statute of limitations, there may be a "continuation” of fraud, according to Ray Fournier who worked with the State Department's office of diplomatic security for more than 20 years. Fournier, an expert on visa and passport fraud, worked for the Joint Terrorism Task Force in San Diego, where his investigative work led to an arrest warrant for the American-born cleric Anwar Awlaki, who was later killed by the CIA.

Fournier said, "If she has marked ‘no’ on the petition, but if in fact, the answer is yes … then we have a false statement. And where that comes into play, most assuredly, is in the arena of passport fraud. It is this application." With each renewal of Chen's U.S. passport, Fournier said, investigators should determine whether the falsehood was repeated. "These are issues of inadmissibility," he said.

While going through the immigration process, Chen was also launching what would become a multi-million-dollar online academy. But that academy's work would eventually attract the attention of federal investigators, who questioned whether students’ records were remotely accessed from China.

Before the 2012 raid, Chen's daughter Lele Wang who also works at UMT, told the FBI that "'Contractors' in the UMT Beijing Office have [administrator] privileges" to access the student database.

Rhoads said UMT recruited service members who provided their military history when they enrolled. "It got uploaded into an O-drive, they called it ... their personal military bio, you know, where they were trained, how they were trained, how long, that could be remotely accessed."

Rhoads said Chen had a particular interest in Ohio's Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, which is a research and technology hub.

And there was more. "She wanted me to go out to these remote reserve and National Guard centers, you know … in small-town America and start gettin' U.S. soldiers from those centers. Get their information, basically. Who's out there in the woods? How many units we got?"

Rhoads recalled to Fox News that he was instructed by the FBI to tell Chen that he was going to testify before a Virginia grand jury. "They wanted to, I guess see how … she would react."

At the time, Rhoads said Chen had no idea he was working with the bureau.

He said, "Well, at this point, she didn't know I was working for them at all. And she's like, ‘Oh, you don't tell them anything. We don't know each other. You don't … know what you don't know,’ was her buzz phrase. ‘You don't -- you don't know I was a colonel in the P.L.A. They'll never have proof to say that’."

Emails obtained by Fox News show Rhoads and at least one FBI agent alerted the Defense Department, but another Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed in 2014 through 2019 allowing UMT to collect millions in federal taxpayer aid.

An FBI agent in one email exchange wrote, "I let my management and the AUSAs [assistant U.S. attorneys] know about her renewal with DoD. Incredible."

Asked about the renewal, as well as whether DoD personnel were warned and additional steps were taken to vet UMT, the DoD chief for Voluntary Education Assistance, Dawn Bilodeau, referred questions to Pentagon spokesperson Laura Ochoa. In an email, Ochoa said, "In light of reports regarding University of Management and Technology (UMT), the Department is reviewing the DoD MOU signed between the institution and the DoD for compliance."

No one has been charged with any crime in connection with the investigation. Sources told Fox News that Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia James P. Gilllis got the case, but there was a disagreement with the FBI over how to proceed, based on the case law and the extent to which sources and methods would be revealed.

Neither the FBI nor a spokesman for Gillis would comment to Fox News but separately, a spokesman for NCIS said they cannot comment on an "ongoing investigation." A FOIA request filed by Fox News Senior Executive Producer Pamela Browne confirmed an NCIS investigative file for UMT.

Fox News made repeated requests by phone and via email for interviews with Yanping Chen and J. Davidson Frame. After Chen’s daughter said they were too busy to prepare and traveling out of town, Fox News went to their offices in Rosslyn, Va.

A school representative, who would not identify himself, confirmed Chen and Frame were in the office that day, but after learning Fox News was at the front desk, the couple refused to come out. Fox News’ questions covered how UMT was run, Chen's suspected military ties, whether service members' records are secure, and how millions in taxpayer dollars are spent.

Fox News also sent a series of questions to the Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C., but there was no immediate response.

According to UMT, nearly 20,000 students have studied there, while 10,710 have earned degrees.

Catherine Herridge is an award-winning Chief Intelligence correspondent for FOX News Channel (FNC) based in Washington, D.C. She covers intelligence, the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security. Herridge joined FNC in 1996 as a London-based correspondent.

Pamela K. Browne is Senior Executive Producer at the FOX News Channel (FNC) and is Director of Long-Form Series and Specials. Her journalism has been recognized with several awards. Browne first joined FOX in 1997 to launch the news magazine “Fox Files” and later, “War Stories.”A 74-year-old U.S. Army veteran is set to go on trial next month for the ‘crime’ of posting two American flags on the fence of a Los Angeles VA facility -- and the Justice Department is facing calls to drop the case.

The criminal prosecution of Robert Rosebrock dates back to charges filed under the Obama administration, but conservative group Judicial Watch is hoping new Attorney General Jeff Sessions will take a second look.

“Frankly, President Trump should ask why the VA and his Justice Department are trying to jail this American patriot,” Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said in a statement. His group is now representing Rosebrock.

“The federal government’s pursuit of these vindictive charges against Mr. Rosebrock is mind-blowing,” he added.

Expand / Contract Shown here is Robert Rosebrock. (Courtesy of Judicial Watch)

Judicial Watch Director of Litigation Paul Orfanedes confirmed to Fox News they have reached out to Sessions with a request to intervene before the scheduled March 7 trial.

Rosebrock is facing one criminal charge for displaying an American flag without permission on the fence outside the Greater Los Angeles Veterans Affairs (GLAVA) facility during a protest of the VA’s treatment of homeless veterans.

The charge is related to a 1973 VA regulation that prohibits individuals from posting materials or placards on VA property except when authorized by the head of the VA facility or a designee.

Rosebrock faces a criminal count of violating that policy during a protest last Memorial Day and on June 12, 2016. In the second incident, Rosebrock was not even the individual who posted the flag. Orfanedes told Fox News the reason why the police chose to enforce the policy on those days remains unclear.

Rosebrock is facing an two additional counts for allegedly taking unauthorized photos of a VA police officer on Memorial Day and during the second protest when conservative activist Ted Hayes was handcuffed and detained. Hayes is not being prosecuted.

Rosebrock, who served in the Army from 1965 to 1967, pleaded not guilty but faces up to six months in prison if found guilty.

Neither the Justice Department nor the Department of Veterans Affairs returned calls seeking comment.

The roots of the unusual case date back almost a decade, when Rosebrock held his first protest. Every Sunday since March 2008, Rosebrock and other veterans have placed flags on the fence as a means of drawing attention to what they allege is VA mistreatment of homeless vets.

For almost 66 weeks, he and other veterans placed their flags on the fences without any interference from police. It was only after some of the protesters started hanging the flag upside-down that the police became involved.

Starting in June 2009, they began issuing citations for “unauthorized demonstration or service in a national cemetery or on other VA property,” according to the ACLU of Los Angeles, which represented him in a 2010 First Amendment lawsuit.

In May 2011, U.S. District Judge S. James Otero found the VA had violated Rosebrock’s First Amendment rights, and the VA eventually dismissed the citations against him.

While it would not grant him any damages, the 9th Circuit Court determined that VA enforcement only began “when protestors hung the American flag union down on the fence.” Orfanedes said the protesters haven't hung the flag upside-down since 2010.

Although the VA may view Rosebrock and his fellow vets to be a nuisance, the attention on the VA's management of the Los Angeles properties has led to change.

For example, the ACLU of Southern California also filed a lawsuit in 2011 alleging the VA had illegally leased land, including to UCLA for its baseball stadium and to a parking service. The VA eventually settled in 2015 and subsequently unveiled a plan to improve its management of the Los Angeles campus.For a woman who has supposedly, allegedly and ostensibly been “sidelined,” Kellyanne Conway is suddenly about as high-profile as you can get.

In little more than 12 hours, she appeared on “Hannity” and “Fox & Friends,” gave a kickoff speech at CPAC and did a bunch more interviews at the conservative conference.

It says something about our modern media culture—and perhaps about backbiting among Trump advisers—that Conway’s absence from the airwaves for a single week could be construed as evidence of being in some imaginary doghouse. Kellyanne remains what she was during the campaign she managed, President Trump’s most visible and effective spokeswoman.

“It’s a ridiculous story,” said White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, referring to a CNN report citing unnamed sources as saying Conway had been yanked from the airwaves. “She has several media appearances this week and has been focused on prep for the upcoming joint session speech” to Congress. “Kellyanne is a key member of the president’s staff, which is another reason this story is so absurd.”

The White House counselor was equally dismissive with Sean Hannity, saying that “somebody’s trying to start up trouble” and that “folks are trying to use me as clickbait and a headline.” TV appearances, Conway noted, are only 5 percent of her job. She has actually been trying to reduce her TV workload.

Then she pointed out the real reason she slipped a bit off the public radar: “I'm out with four kids for three days looking at houses and schools. A lot of my colleagues aren't trying to figure out how to be a mother of four kids, I assure you.”

In the blood sport of Washington, critics sometimes forget that political figures are real people with actual lives. Conway is in the process of arranging for her New Jersey-based family to join her here.

To be sure, Conway had a rough spell when she referred several times, most prominently on MSNBC, to a non-existent Bowling Green massacre. But she wasn’t trying to convince people of something that didn’t happen; she was referring to two Iraqi refugees in Bowling Green who were convicted of aiding Al Qaeda’s efforts to kill American soldiers. Conway, who told me that she “misspoke,” corrected the mistake as soon as it was called to her attention.

She also drew widespread criticism for urging people in a Fox interview to buy Ivanka Trump’s clothing line after it was dropped by Nordstrom. The White House said she had been “counseled” about the matter. Detractors seized on the two incidents to question her credibility.

The CNN report pointed to Conway having said on MSNBC on Feb. 13 that Michael Flynn had the “full confidence” of the president, who fired him as national security adviser late that night. But anyone who thinks that Conway was going rogue doesn’t understand how this White House works. She was offering the guidance she was given in a highly fluid situation in which Flynn had been hanging on during days of controversy. The next morning, Conway appeared on several morning shows to discuss the situation at Trump’s request.

Have their ever been such harsh and sustained attacks on a White House official over the way that person defended the president? Conway, along with Sean Spicer, the press secretary, who is also on the front lines with the media, has been brutally mocked on “Saturday Night Live.” As a woman, even her fashion choices have drawn flak.

Unlike the president, who describes major news organizations as the “enemy of the American people,” Conway doesn’t use harsh language against the press. But she is in some ways caught in a crossfire between journalists and a boss who thrives on attacking them.

Howard Kurtz is a Fox News analyst and the host of "MediaBuzz" (Sundays 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. ET). He is the author of five books and is based in Washington. Follow him at @HowardKurtz. Click here for more information on Howard Kurtz.President Trump took another step Friday to roll back government red tape, signing an executive order requiring every federal agency to form a “regulatory reform task force” that would root out regulations for repeal.

A day after chief strategist Steve Bannon vowed a "deconstruction of the administrative state," Trump directed each agency's task force to evaluate existing rules and identify which ones should be modified or sent to the chopping block.

Joined in the Oval Office by business executives, Trump said "unnecessary” and “burdensome" regulations are “killing jobs” and “driving companies out of our country like never before."

Those regulations, according to the White House, will be a focus of the new task forces.

Trump said reducing the regulatory burden will “unleash economic activity.”

Trump signed the order after delivering a rousing address to party faithful at the nearby Conservative Political Action Conference. The order builds on previous directives to find two regulations to cut for every new one proposed, and to freeze pending regulations.

While the latest measure takes this a step further, stripping existing regulations could ultimately require congressional involvement.

Trump's new order calls for each task force to document and report their progress toward meeting the president’s directives.

In the first 30 days of his term, Trump has overseen a considerable slowdown in regulations, according to an analysis by The Hill. There has been a 72 percent decline in regulatory activity during the first month of the Trump administration compared with the last two months of then-President Barack Obama’s term.

Trump also has signed several bills passed by Congress aimed at specific regulations. They include a resolution to mitigate the harm done to the coal industry by the Stream Protection Rule, and another measure to eliminate a reporting regulation that Republicans argue placed American mining and energy companies and their employees at an unfair disadvantage because their foreign competitors do not have similar requirements.

According to the White House, the Obama administration finalized more than 3,000 regulations that cost American taxpayers $873 billion.

Speaking Thursday at the annual CPAC, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus characterized Trump’s regulatory reform efforts as a “big deal.”

Bannon echoed Priebus, saying the earlier executive action was the first step towards the "deconstruction of the administrative state."

Not everyone is on board Trump’s regulatory reform train.

On February 8, Public Citizen, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Communications Workers of America jointly filed a lawsuit challenging the validity of the action calling for two regulations to be stripped for every one proposed.

The three liberal groups argue that complying with the executive order would force government agencies to violate the 1946 Administrative Procedures Act, the federal statute which governs the way regulations are established.A battle this weekend for control of the Democratic National Committee is poised to pull the party further to the left – the question is how far.

After a bruising series of elections during which Democrats lost the House, the Senate and finally the White House, the DNC on Saturday will choose its new chairman. The vote could mark a turning point as the party seeks to rebuild and potentially rebrand. But based on the leading candidates for the post, some see the party moving further from the mainstream.

The two top contenders, Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota and former Labor Secretary Tom Perez, have both garnered high-profile endorsements. Ellison has picked up support from Sen. Bernie Sanders, Sen. Chuck Schumer and Rep. John Lewis, while former Attorney General Eric Holder and former Vice President Biden have backed Perez, who served in the Obama administration. Former President Obama also has sung the praises of Perez, without formally endorsing him.

Both candidates highlight their progressive records, careers spent advocating for civil rights and grassroots work. In the 2016 presidential primaries, Perez supported Hillary Clinton, while Ellison endorsed Sanders. The election of either contender, and especially Ellison, would signal a strong shift to the left.

As the first Muslim elected to Congress in 2006, Ellison used Thomas Jefferson’s copy of the Quran for his swearing in. Though this stirred up controversy, his career spans far more provocative acts. In 1989, he defended Louis Farrakhan, the controversial leader of the National of Islam, in the University of Minnesota school paper. Fox News spoke with a fellow student who recalls confronting Ellison over his anti-Semitic remarks during his time on campus, saying that Ellison refused to engage in conversation over his remarks.

Accusations of anti-Semitism followed Ellison based on his association with Farrakhan. He asserts that he was never an official member of the Nation of Islam, but admits that he did spend 18 months organizing the Minnesota division of Farrakhan’s Million Man March in 1995.

It wasn’t until he ran for Congress in 2006 that Ellison wrote a letter to the Jewish community, apologizing for his involvement with others who held anti-Semitic views. Nevertheless, the allegations haven’t disappeared and he has been criticized for his connection to both the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) and Muslim American Society, a U.S.-based organization with suspected ties to the Muslim Brotherhood.

The Anti-Defamation League has called for Ellison to be disqualified based on “deeply disturbing” remarks he made about Israel in 2010.

In 2016, Ellison defended himself, claiming that in fighting for the African-American community, he shouldn’t have neglected the hatred and division of certain people he was associated with, but asserted that he had long since disavowed them.

Ellison has been credited with being one of the few Democrats, or Republicans for that matter, who predicted Donald Trump could win the presidency. In July 2015, On “This Week” on ABC, Ellison predicted that Trump had enough “momentum” to actually win. The rest of the panelists erupted into laughter. He was unquestionably opposed to Trump’s presidency, but Ellison was paying attention to the early signs that Trump could, and ultimately did, win. On Wednesday, Trump tweeted, “One thing I will say about Rep. Keith Ellison, in his fight to lead the DNC, is that he was the one who predicted early that I would win!”

Perez graduated from Harvard Law School in 1987 and later worked as a civil rights attorney at the U.S. Department of Justice. He went on to serve as deputy assistant attorney general for civil rights under AG Janet Reno. Perez joined the Montgomery County Council in Maryland in 2002 as the first Latino to sit on the council and then became its president in 2004, serving until 2006. During the Obama administration, he returned to the Department of Justice as assistant attorney general for civil rights in 2009 and went on to serve as the Obama-appointed secretary of Labor from 2013 until 2017.

While Perez generally is seen as the more mainstream candidate, there are those who believe his politics are still fairly radical. J. Christian Adams, former attorney at the U.S. Department of Justice, has a contentious history with Perez. Adams accused the Justice Department of racial bias in dropping a New Black Panthers voter intimidation case, and further alleged that Perez lied under oath in hearings before the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.

“Based on my firsthand experiences, I believe the dismissal of the Black Panther case was motivated by a lawless hostility toward equal enforcement of the law,” he wrote.

When asked about Perez’s capability to serve as the DNC chair, Adams told Fox News, "He testified falsely under oath about the New Black Panthers dismissal and told the DOJ inspector general he didn't think cases should be brought to protect white voters. He'll make a perfect chair for the modern Democratic Party."**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.**

On the roster: - How broken are Democrats? - White House pushed FBI to stifle reports on Russia ties - Annnnnd…Trump responds to report slamming FBI in tweets - Power Play: CPAC pop quiz! - We used to call this ‘childhood’



HOW BROKEN ARE DEMOCRATS?

What kind of party do Democrats want to have?

Simple: One that stops losing elections.

As the members of the Democratic National Committee gather this weekend in Atlanta to choose a new leader, much as been said about the paths forward for the party.

One, personified by Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., is maximal confrontation. Ellison, the first Muslim elected to Congress, urges his party to face down Trump as not just wicked but also criminal.

It was at least three years before Republicans in the Obama era had to deal with bleating from their base about impeachment, but Ellison & Co. are already there.

Think about that for a second. A sitting member of Congress potentially in line to lead a major political party is calling for the impeachment of a president who has been in office for five weeks. Whatever you think of Donald Trump, that’s gonzo stuff.

The other way forward is being cast in the press as a more moderate choice, that of former Labor Secretary Tom Perez.

The very fact that Perez, a staunch uber-liberal, is being depicted as some sort of squish tells you how bad off the Democrats are now.

If you thought John Boehner and Reince Priebus had it bad keeping Republicans from swallowing their tongues in the Obama era, Perez and other basically normal Democrats are about to walk through a hellscape even more diabolical in nature.

Where Republicans had Obama’s supposedly forged birth certificate, Democrats have Vladimir Putin rigging the election. The Democrat’s conspiracy theory is less insane sounding, but will be equally damaging to the party and its mental health – if not more so.

From a practical point of view, dealing with Trump for Democrats would be a pretty straightforward matter. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer has basically said as much: Find the points on which Trump, no conservative, agrees with Democrats -- especially on stimulus spending, labor policy and trade -- and then jam the GOP.

One of the advantages of having a non-ideological president was supposed to be all the deal-making that would get done. But instead, Washington is still stuck.

Yes, that is in part because Trump and his fellow Republicans can’t quite get the signal calling down on moving the big legislation still in the discussion phase, but also because no Democrat other than those from bright-red states feel free to work with Trump on anything.

If Schumer really wanted to be in Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s head, the Democrat would be paying multiple visits to his fellow New Yorker at the White House.

But Schumer knows that he can’t because his party’s base doesn’t even consider Trump the legitimate president, just as some Republicans, including Trump, felt about Obama.

If Perez wins this weekend, his task of leading a political party, not a resistance, will be daunting to say the least. It would be easier for him than it is for Schumer since the party isn’t concerned with policy so much as fundraising and organizing.

Even so, dealing with the frothiest parts of his party is a task no prospective Democratic chairman, save perhaps Ellison, could relish.

The last time Democrats were in the wilderness like this was 13 years ago after the emotionally devastating defeat of John Kerry by incumbent president George W. Bush. Obama proved an unlikely but effective Moses for his party by effectively absorbing the energy the kooks of the far left and channeling it into more productive aims.

Right now, there is no one on the horizon with the potential exception of California Sen. Kamala Harris who could unite this angry, broken party.

This weekend we will find out just how angry and broken it is.


WHITE HOUSE PUSHED FBI TO STIFLE REPORTS ON RUSSIA TIES

AP: “White House chief of staff Reince Priebus asked a top FBI official to dispute media reports that President Donald Trump's campaign advisers were frequently in touch with Russian intelligence agents during the election, a White House official said. The official said that Priebus' request came as the White House sought to discredit a New York Times report about the contacts last week. As of Thursday, the FBI had not commented publicly on the report and there was no indication it planned to. The New York Times reported that U.S. agencies had intercepted phone calls last year between Russian intelligence officials and members of Trump's 2016 campaign team. Priebus' discussion with FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe sparked outrage among some Democrats, who said that the chief of staff was violating policies intended to limit communications between the law enforcement agency and the White House on pending investigations.”

Annnnnd…Trump responds to report slamming FBI in tweets - Fox News: “President Trump, after a brief hiatus, returned to throwing Twitter bombs Friday morning to accuse his own FBI of failing to crack down on leaks – on the heels of reports about a conversation his chief of staff had with the bureau about Russia-related allegations…The White House pushed back, claiming in response that while Priebus did speak with FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, McCabe initiated the contact to inform Priebus that The New York Times report about campaign contacts with Russia was incorrect…[Trump tweeted] ‘The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security ‘leakers’ that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even…. find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW.’”


The New York Times, citing people who attended the National Security Council meeting, reported that Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster was in his Army uniform at the time and it represents a break from the opinion of other senior advisers.

Peter R. Mansoor, a retired Army colonel who served with McMaster in Iraq during the 2007 surge of U.S. troops, said earlier that McMaster “absolutely does not view Islam as the enemy."

"So I think he will present a degree of pushback against the theories being propounded in the White House that this is a clash of civilizations and needs to be treated as such," he said.

The national security adviser has a special role within the government, working directly with the president but not subject to confirmation by the Senate. McMaster will advise Trump and serve as his coordinator of foreign and defense policy.

On the day McMaster was sworn in, Slate magazine ran an article titled, “Trump Just Hired the Army’s Smartest Officer.

“The key thing to know about McMaster—an active-duty three-star general and deputy commander of the Army’s Training and Doctrine Command—is that he has made a career of speaking truth to power, often instinctively, without the slightest talent for fawning to his superiors,” Fred Kaplan, the article’s author, wrote.

McMaster, 54, is an independent-minded soldier widely admired for his leadership skills, but he is short on experience in Washington's trenches.

His appointment reinforces the more mainstream approach to security that Trump is getting from Pentagon chief Jim Mattis, who seems to have steered the administration toward stronger support for NATO and allies in Asia, and away from the reauthorization of torture in interrogations.

“McMaster, like (President) Obama, is someone who was in positions of leadership and thought the United states should not play into the jihadist propaganda that this is a religious war,” William McCants, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, told The Times.

The Associated Press contributed to this reportPresident Trump’s administration on Friday made its first tangible step towards developing and implementing one of the president’s chief campaign promises: to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border.

Bloomberg reported that the administration issued a preliminary request for proposals to contractors. U.S. Customs and Border Protection said it plans to start awarding contracts by mid-April.

The agency said it will request bids on or around March 6 and that companies would have to submit "concept papers" to design and build prototypes by March 10.

The field of candidates will be narrowed by March 20, and finalists must submit offers with their proposed costs by March 24.

VIDEO: DHS SECRETARY KELLY WANTS A SURGE IN BORDER RESOURCES

The president told the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday that construction will start "very soon" and is "way, way, way ahead of schedule."

The agency's notice gave no details on where the wall would be built first and how many miles would be covered initially. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly has sought employees' opinions during border tours of California, Arizona and Texas.

It is unclear how soon Congress would provide funding and how much.

The Government Accountability Office estimates it would cost on average $6.5 million a mile for a fence to keep out people who try to enter on foot and $1.8 million a mile for vehicle barriers. There are currently 354 miles of pedestrian fencing and 300 miles of vehicle barriers, much of it built during President George W. Bush's second term.

Republican leaders in Congress have said Trump's wall would cost between $12 billion and $15 billion. Trump has suggested $12 billion.

An internal Homeland Security Department report prepared for Kelly estimates the cost of extending the wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border at about $21 billion, according to a U.S. government official who is involved in border issues. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the report has not been made public.

The Homeland Security report proposes an initial phase that would extend fences 26 miles and a second wave that would add 151 miles, plus 272 "replacement" miles where fences are already installed, according to the official. Those two phases would cost $5 billion.

The price tag will depend largely on the height, materials and other specifications that have not yet been defined.

Granite Construction Inc., Vulcan Materials Co. and Martin Marrieta Materials Inc. are seen as potential bidders. Kiewit Corp. built one of the more expensive stretches of fencing so far at a cost of about $16 million a mile, a project in San Diego that involved filling a deep canyon known as Smuggler's Gulch.

Cement maker Cemex SAB is also seen as a potential beneficiary even though it is based in Mexico.

The Associated Press contributed to this reportVice President Mike Pence is assuring the Republican Jewish Coalition that he and President Donald Trump will work tirelessly on foreign and domestic issues important to the group, such as enacting business-friendly policies at home and supporting Israel abroad.

"If the world knows nothing else, the world will know this: America stands with Israel," Pence told the group Friday night. The Republican administration is "assessing" whether to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, he said, and has put Iran "on notice."

Pence's words served as evidence of the fruits of years of the politically active group's labors. Its annual conference at billionaire donor Sheldon Adelson's casino resort on the Las Vegas Strip has become a de facto campaign stop for Republican presidential candidates over the past few years. The RJC also drew the entire GOP presidential field to its December 2015 forum in Washington.

Now, with the first Republican White House in eight years, the group of Republican donors and Jewish leaders was among the first to hear from the new vice president. Former Vice President Dick Cheney introduced Pence. The roughly 500 attendees also are expected to hear from Sens. Cory Gardner of Colorado, Joni Ernst of Iowa and Lindsay Graham of South Carolina this weekend.

Pence told the RJC that America's bonds with Israel had already grown stronger under the young administration. President Barack Obama did not have a close relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and many Republican Jews saw the Obama administration as insufficiently supportive of Israel.

Pence also ticked through Trump's domestic agenda, saying the president had already brought back American jobs. "This White House is in the promise-keeping business," he said.

The vice president shared stories from his trip to Germany last weekend — his first abroad as vice president. He'd paid a visit to the former Dachau concentration camp, where thousands of Austrian and German Jews were among those imprisoned and killed. He was joined on the tour by a survivor of the Holocaust who was at Dachau when it was liberated by American soldiers at the end of World War II.

Pence also talked about how this week he had made a surprise visit to a Jewish cemetery in Missouri where more than 150 gravestones had been toppled and vandalized. Speaking through a bullhorn at the site, he said there was "no place in America for hatred or acts of prejudice or violence or anti-Semitism" and then picked up a rake and helped clean up the cemetery.

In Las Vegas, the vice president effusively praised the Adelsons from the stage, saying that they "in so many ways have given America a second chance" through their political work in the U.S. and Israel. Adelson and his wife, Miriam, gave more than $20 million to a pro-Trump super PAC, making them among Trump's most generous benefactors, campaign records show.

"Rest assured we're going to keep our end of the bargain, too," Pence said, thanking the Adelsons and RJC for "steadfast support" throughout the campaign.

Yet, like so many staples of party politics — including the conservative activist conference taking place this week near Washington — the RJC has fit uneasily with Trump.

Adelson, who helps finance the RJC, didn't openly support Trump until the final weeks of the presidential campaign. The wariness was mutual. Trump had called his GOP rivals "puppets" of Adelson and prompted major heartburn among Republican Jews with his freewheeling comments at the 2015 RJC forum.

Trump has been appreciative. At one of his final campaign stops, in Las Vegas, he called the couple "really incredible people" who have been "so supportive" The Adelsons also were front and center for Trump's swearing-in last month, and Sheldon Adelson was one of Trump's first dinner guests at the White House.

And Trump picked the leader of the super PAC that landed Adelson's money, Chicago businessman Todd Ricketts, as deputy commerce secretary.Officials in President Trump’s administration Friday downplayed an intelligence report by the Homeland Security Department that contradicts the White House’s main arguement for implementing a travel ban on seven predominantly Muslim countries.

The report, which was viewed by The Wall Street Journal and Associated Press, determined that the "country of citizenship is unlikely to be a reliable indicator of potential terrorist activity."

The Trump administration has taken the position that immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries should be blocked from the U.S. due to their terror risk. Trump used terrorism a primary justification when he announced the now court-blocked travel ban in late January.

The intelligence report found that in the past six years, foreign-born individuals who were “inspired” to strike in the U.S. came from 26 different countries.

VIDEO: DERSHOWITZ ON WHAT HE EXPECTS NEXT FOR TRUMP'S TRAVEL BAN

Senior White House Policy Adviser Stephen Miller told Fox News' "First 100 Days" Tuesday that a revised version of the travel ban would "have the same basic policy outcome."

A senior administration official told The Wall Street Journal that the DHS report’s assessment overlooked key information and the finished product that the White House requested has not been completed. The White House called the report politically motivated. Officials said it overlooked some information that supported the ban.

“The president asked for an intelligence assessment,” the official said. “This is not the intelligence assessment the president asked for.”

VIDEO: DEMOCRAT FINDS ELEMENTS TO SUPPORT IN TRUMP'S TRAVEL BAN

The draft report determined that few people from the countries Trump listed in his travel ban have carried out attacks or been involved in terrorism-related activities in the U.S. since Syria's civil war started in 2011.

Gillian Christensen, a DHS spokeswoman, does not dispute the report's authenticity, but says it was not a final comprehensive review of the government's intelligence.

“It is clear on its face that it is an incomplete product that fails to find evidence of terrorism by simply refusing to look at all the available evidence,” she said, according to The Journal. “Any suggestion by opponents of the president’s policies that senior (homeland security) intelligence officials would politicize this process or a report’s final conclusions is absurd and not factually accurate. The dispute with this product was over sources and quality, not politics.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report

Edmund DeMarche is a news editor for FoxNews.com. Follow him on Twitter @EDeMarche.

A military judge won't throw out charges against Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl despite scathing comments that President Donald Trump made on the campaign trail.

Bergdahl's lawyers had argued that Trump's comments violated their client's due-process rights and that the judge should dismiss charges accusing him of endangering comrades by walking off his post in Afghanistan in 2009.

The Judge, Army Col. Jeffery Nance, wrote in his ruling Friday that he found Trump's comments disturbing but that they didn't constitute unlawful command influence.

He said that he would allow defense attorneys wide leeway to question potential jurors about Trump and that they could again ask for charges to be dropped after jury selection begins.

Bergdahl has been charged with desertion and misbehavior before the enemy and is scheduled for trial in April.With just a few sentences Thursday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer sent shockwaves through the legal recreational marijuana industry when asked about the Trump administration's attitude toward the drug.

"There's two distinct issues here, there is medical marijuana, and recreational marijuana," Spicer explained. He said President Trump supports medical marijuana but when it comes to recreational, "I think that's a question for the Justice Department. I do believe that you'll see greater enforcement of it."

When Colorado and Washington became the first states to legalize recreational pot, the Obama administration chose to leave them alone. In 2013, the Justice Department release the Cole Memo, addressed to all U.S. attorneys, which basically told them to take a hands-off approach to legalization for the time being.

The memo said in part, "In jurisdictions that have enacted laws legalizing marijuana in some form … conduct in compliance with those laws and regulations is less likely to threaten the federal priorities."

That was despite the fact that marijuana was, and still is, classified as a Schedule 1 illegal substance by the Drug Enforcement Agency -- the same as cocaine and heroin.

Since then, the recreational marijuana industry has boomed. A total of eight states and the District of Columbia have now passed laws legalizing the drug, though right now recreational pot can actually be purchased only in Colorado, Oregon and Washington state. But even in those three states, sales are huge, with combined recreational pot tax revenues of $488 million in 2016 alone.

"If the federal government starts to pull the rug out from under these businesses … you’re going to see state and local leaders speaking up and saying, 'You know what? Our voters chose this!’" warned Taylor West, deputy director of the National Cannabis Industry Association.

Many businesses had hoped the new president would see the issue as one of states' rights. After all, back in October, 2015, then-candidate Trump told a rally in Sparks, Nev., that he was not opposed to legal pot. "In terms of maijuana and legalization I think that should really be a state issue, state by state."

Trump's new Attorney General Jeff Sessions has a long history of opposition to marijuana while still senator from Alabama. At his confirmation hearing in January. however, he put the issue squarely in the lap of the legislature.

"The United States Congress has made the possession of marijuana in every state and the distribution of it an illegal act," Sessions pointed out. "If that's something that's not desired any longer, Congress should pass a law to change the rule."

Medical marijuana shops in places like California, which voted to legalize recreational pot in November, have been looking forward to expanding. Steve DeAngelo, co-founder of Harborside Health Center in Oakland, reacted to Spicer's comments with defiance.

"The day that we are allowed to serve adults, we will serve adults,” he said. “And if the federal government wants to take action against us, we've taken all the preparations we possibly can and we're ready to face the music."

Others are applauding what Spicer said. The Smart Approaches to Marijuana organization has fought legalization around the country.

In a statement, SAM President and CEO Kevin A. Sabet wrote, "This isn't an issue about states rights, its an issue of public health and safety for communities. We're hopeful that the Trump administration will pursue a smart approach to enforcement that prioritizes public health and safety over political ideology."

Colorado's state attorney general's office told Fox News it will wait and see what happens. “It’s impossible to discern what action the administration actually will take on legalized recreational marijuana," wrote Director of Communications Annie Skinner. "Until the Department of Justice issues an official position, we won’t be able to chart a course of legal action for Colorado.”

When asked by Fox News for its own reaction to Spicer's comments about marijuana, the Department of Justice declined comment.

Alicia Acuna joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in 1997 and currently serves as a general assignment reporter based in the network's Denver bureau.President Trump routinely accosts the press corps, foreign leaders, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Sen. Lindsey Graham R-S.C.

He has yet to verbally pistol-whip most congressional Republicans.

Sure, he lit up Sens. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Marco Rubio, R-Fla., during the campaign. Remember handles like “Lyin’ Ted” and “Little Marco?” Who can possibly forget the absolutely baleful rhetoric Trump unleashed on House Speaker Paul Ryan?

For now, Schumer remains a favorite foil of Trump. The president even got hooks into Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., over a meeting on opioid addiction which never happened.

But one wonders how long Trump can hold his tongue if Congress doesn’t start to produce some of the legislative results he wants – let alone needs.

It’s now late February. Other than some executive orders (albeit controversial ones) and un-doing a few Obama-era provisions, Congress hasn’t sent the the president much meat on which to chew. One can certainly point at Senate Democrats for slow-walking Cabinet nominees and siphoning valuable hours of Senate floor time. But frankly, it’s not like the Republican-led Congress had big ticket items ready for the president to sign.

The marquee topics are tax reform and repealing and replacing ObamaCare. These will take time – despite some of the high-minded talk from the campaign trail that lawmakers could address things overnight. We’re hearing the Trump administration could have plans on both ready sometime in March.

So far, there’s been minimal intra-tribal warfare on the polar ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. But Trump must tread carefully. Sure, he enjoys bedrock supporters like Reps. Chris Collins, R-N.Y., and Lou Barletta, R-Pa. But many congressional Republicans only boarded the Trump train as a matter of convenience. Many jumped on late. Others went along tepidly because of voters in their districts. Some aren’t with the Trump program even now. But they quietly sit on their hands because they know Republicans have a shot at tax reform and retrenching ObamaCare. This particular cohort of congressional Republicans winces at ill-conceived executive orders, phone calls to Australia and various pre-dawn tweets.

Could this dam break?

To some Republicans, repeal and replacement of ObamaCare is taking too long. Tax reform is struggling. Challenges to keep the government open and raise the debt ceiling (the total amount of red ink that the federal government can carry at any one time) lurk around the bend. The national debt now kisses $21 trillion. It’s not clear where Republican leaders will unearth the votes to hike the debt ceiling if there’s no concrete plan in place to reduce spending in a significant fashion.

Most congressional Republicans didn’t invest deeply in Trump. If there aren’t results, they can’t blame President Obama or Hillary Clinton or House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. Schumer? Perhaps a little. Midterm elections loom next fall. These Republican lawmakers will only stay on the bus so long before they start to bail. After all, they need a foil, too. What about that mandate for Trump to govern? Clinton clocked the president in the popular vote by nearly three million clicks.

Could they levy their grievances against Trump?

They can blame the rocky, early days of his administration. Chaotic press conferences. Hawking Ivanka Trump’s jewelry on Fox. And Sweden. #StandwithSweden.

It’s conceivable some congressional GOPers could dump Trump to build distance between themselves and the president. But, speaking of Sweden, others may very well hunker down in their own version of the Stockholm Syndrome, accepting their captor.

You see, the electoral consequences of the midterm election might not be that dire for Republicans. Start with the Senate. Only eight Republicans face re-election next year compared to a staggering 25 Democrats. Many of those Democratic seats are hard to hold as they represent red states or turf Mr. Trump carried: Sens. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.; Jon Tester, D-Mont.; Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D.; Joe Manchin, D-W.Va.; Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn.; Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis.; Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio; Joe Donnelly, D-Ind.; Bob Casey, D-Pa.; Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich.; and Angus King, I-Maine. Meantime, only two GOP senators are remotely vulnerable: Sens. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Dean Heller, R-Nev. Some Democrats are cautiously optimistic about the seat now occupied by Cruz.

At this writing, Democrats might consider it a victory to keep GOP gains to two or three seats.

In the House, Republicans represent 23 seats Clinton carried last fall. The current House breakdown is 238 Republicans and 193 Democrats with four vacancies. As things stand now, Democrats would have to run the table and capture 23 seats for an outright majority.

That is a tall order.

So, if you’re the Republican brain trust and things start to spill off the rails with Trump, who cares? Can Democrats truly tie GOPers to Trump in a way that makes any electoral difference? Most Democratic voters are concentrated in the liberal archipelagoes which hug the coasts. There aren’t even many swing voters available for Democrats to flip in House districts they need to win. Many congressional Republicans outperformed the president in their districts.

Thus, we may have a version of the Congressional Stockholm Syndrome. Members willing to just go along, believing it holds little consequence for them at the ballot box.

Will the midterm election focus on results and the possible toxicity of Trump? It might. But due to built-in GOP advantages, it might not matter what happens on either end of Pennsylvania Avenue.

Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.President Trump made a historic return Friday to the Conservative Political Action Conference, telling the crowd, ‘You finally have a president,’ and delivering a wide-ranging speech in which he took aim at ISIS, pushed his plans to combat illegal immigration and vowed to repeal and replace ObamaCare.

He started with a familiar attack on the news media and went so far as to say reporters “shouldn’t be allowed to use sources unless they use somebody’s name.”

"Let them say it to my face. Let there be no more sources," Trump said, though some of his administration officials recently have held briefings where they insisted no names be used.

THE WEEK IN PICTURES

“You finally have a president. It took you a long time. It’s patriots like you that made it happen.” - President Trump

"I'm not against the media," Trump said. "I'm against the people that make up stories and make up sources."

Trump moved on to defend his agenda and vow major action ahead. On immigration, Trump touted plans for a southern border wall with Mexico and said it was “way, way, way ahead of schedule.”

The speech came as Republicans control Congress and the White House for the first time in a decade. Conservatives have been optimistic about the opportunity to enact big policy changes and looked to Trump to spell out his agenda.

“You finally have a president,” he told the packed room at the 44th annual conference, held this year at National Harbor, Md. “It took you a long time. It’s patriots like you that made it happen.”

In addition to media bashing, Trump's characteristically muscular speech included a defense of his crackdown on illegal immigration.

"We're getting the bad ones out," he said, explaining that the Department of Homeland Security is prioritizing deportation of illegal immigrant criminals.

He repeated his pledge to repeal and replace ObamaCare, an effort that seems stalled in Congress, and touted his effort to get key oil pipelines back on track.

"We're checking off the promises we made to the people of the United States," Trump thundered.

Trump drew raucous applause when he vowed to rebuild the U.S. military and spoke of putting America first, a familiar theme from his campaign.

"I'm not representing the globe," Trump said. "I'm representing your country."

The speech ended with the campaign theme song, "You Can't Always Get What You Want," the Rolling Stones early 1970s hit played at Trump rallies.

The president’s speech at CPAC also served as a prelude to his first State of the Union-style speech to Congress Tuesday night.

On Thursday night, Vice President Mike Pence as well as key White House advisers spoke at the annual gathering.

“We conservatives have an opportunity to that only comes around every few generations,” Pence told a pumped-up crowd. “My friends, this is our time.”

White House chief strategist Stephen Bannon and White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus shared the CPAC stage in the afternoon. The two top White House aides praised one another, bashed the press and laid the groundwork for Trump’s Friday speech.

Also making a CPAC appearance was White House Counselor Kellyanne Conway who teased Trump’s appearance: “Tomorrow it will be TPAC when (Trump’s) here.”

The conference, which is hosted by the American Conservative Union, began in 1974 and has since grown into a four-day- event. A closely watched straw poll will be conducted Saturday, the last day.

Trump's appearance Friday marks the fourth visit by a sitting president.

Trump made his first speech at CPAC in 2011. At the time, he floated the possibility of a 2012 presidential run – a nomination that was won by former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney.

He returned in 2015 and was booed after telling the crowd he wanted to use U.S. ground troops to fight ISIS.

Last year, Trump was scheduled to speak at the conservative confab but cancelled at the last minute, saying he would campaign in Kansas and Florida instead.

At the time, the American Conservative Union criticized the move and said his decision sent “a clear message to grassroots conservatives.”President Trump, after a brief hiatus, returned to throwing Twitter bombs Friday morning to accuse his own FBI of failing to crack down on leaks – on the heels of reports about a conversation his chief of staff had with the bureau about Russia-related allegations.

Reports surfaced overnight that Reince Priebus had asked a top FBI official to dispute media reports that Trump's campaign advisers frequently were in touch with Russian intelligence agents during the election.

The White House pushed back, claiming in response that while Priebus did speak with FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, McCabe initiated the contact to inform Priebus that The New York Times report about campaign contacts with Russia was incorrect.

Trump, who has been battling leaks in several federal agencies since his inauguration, on Friday blasted the bureau for apparently letting that conversation go public.

“The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security 'leakers' that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even......find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW,” he wrote.

The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security "leakers" that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

Priebus' reported discussion with McCabe sparked outrage among some Democrats, who said that the chief of staff was violating policies intended to limit communications between the law enforcement agency and the White House on pending investigations.

"The White House is simply not permitted to pressure the FBI to make public statements about a pending investigation of the president and his advisers," said Michigan Rep. John Conyers, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.

But Politico reported that, according to White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, Priebus had merely asked the FBI “to inform journalists of the same point that they were making to us."

Fox News has learned that McCabe indeed had initiated the conversation, asking to speak with Priebus for a few minutes at the end of an intelligence meeting last week. During that conversation, McCabe informed the chief of staff that the Times story was wrong.

Priebus wanted to know what he could do, but apparently was told later by McCabe that the FBI couldn’t be calling balls and strikes on every news story. FBI Director James Comey later told Priebus he could go out and refute the story, which he did.

CNN first reported that Priebus had asked the FBI to weigh in on the matter.

The report marked the latest damaging leaks out of the Trump administration.

Trump, meanwhile, has been shadowed by questions about potential ties to Russia since winning the election. U.S. intelligence agencies earlier concluded that Russia meddled in the campaign to help Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Last week, Trump fired national security adviser Michael Flynn because he misled Vice President Pence and other White House officials about his contacts with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. Flynn, who was interviewed by the FBI about his contacts, is said to have talked with the ambassador multiple times during the transition, including a discussion about U.S. sanctions policy.

Still, Trump and his advisers have denied having had contacts with Russian officials during the election. Last week, Trump said "nobody that I know of" spoke with Russian intelligence agents during the campaign.

Fox News’ John Roberts and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Texas Sen. Ted Cruz told "Special Report with Bret Baier" Thursday that "I think the odds are very good" that a second seat on the Supreme Court will fall vacant this year.

"If not this summer, next summer," Cruz told Bret Baier. "You know, judges don’t like it when people kind of nudge them out, so they’ll go when they decide to go."

Cruz stressed that he had "no inside information" about any possible vacancy, but noted that "that most of my professional career has been as a Supreme Court litigator and I know the Court well."

IN RARE CONCESSION, TOP DEM PREDICTS GORSUCH WILL BE CONFIRMED

President Trump has nominated Neil Gorsuch to succeed the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who died last year at the age of 79. Cruz did not specify which justice he believed would retire, but two of the remaining eight justices on the court — liberal Ruth Bader Ginsburg and swing vote Anthony Kennedy — are in their 80s.

Cruz said the battle over whoever is appointed to fill the forthcoming vacancy would be "Armageddon."

"[This] is going to be the opportunity to shift the course of this court [and] put a five-justice majority of Constitutionalists on the court," Cruz said, adding that Republicans "need to be prepared to take the case to the American people."

Cruz, who has been put forward as a potential Supreme Court candidate, told Baier that he was "very happy in the Senate."

SURVEY: CONTROVERSIAL REP. KEITH ELLISON FRONTRUNNER FOR DNC CHAIR


The senator also had harsh words for Washington Democrats, saying that many are "out of their minds."

"They’re really angry. They’re angry not at Republicans, not even at Trump. They’re angry at the American people. They’re angry at the voters: ‘How dare you elect a Republican president and Republican majorities in both houses?’" Cruz said. "The Democrats are not in the mode of raising reasonable questions. They’re in the mode of losing their minds, of screaming – it’s not showing respect for the democratic process, it’s not showing respect for the voters. I think that’s unfortunate.**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.**


Follow below on FoxNews.com's live blog:For the last eight years, conservatives used their signature annual gathering to blast the Obama administration and plot a Republican takeover. Now, the GOP is in charge -- and this week’s Conservative Political Action Conference is the movement’s first big chance since President Trump’s victory to hone their agenda.

“The conservative movement has elected a Republican president,” American Conservative Union Chairman Matt Schlapp said Wednesday, at the start of the annual conference, which his group sponsors. “It’s not so much now about complaining about President Obama’s agenda as it is about what we’ll do with political power and the responsibility to get the economy moving.”

Leaders are hoping to use the conference to strategize about what they can accomplish now that Republicans control Capitol Hill and the White House and to better articulate their values at a time when the very definition of conservatism has seemed to waver.

The conference at National Harbor, just outside Washington, D.C., will feature a host of lawmakers and officials -- including top White House advisers and Vice President Pence on Thursday, and President Trump on Friday morning.

White House Counselor Kellyanne Conway predicted Thursday morning that the energy surrounding the new president is so intense, “tomorrow it will be TPAC when he’s here.”

During her remarks on the CPAC stage, Conway lauded her boss’s ability to make supporters feel like they’re part of a movement.

“He went right to the grassroots and brought you along,” she said.

But much of the buzz around the four-day event has centered on CPAC organizers pulling the speaking slot of “alt-right” provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos, after the release of an audio tape in which he made what Schlapp called “disgusting” comments.

Yiannopoulos seems on the year-old tape to defend adults having sex with minors. Yiannopoulos apologized this week for the comments and said he had been sexually abused as a teen.

Schlapp said Wednesday that CPAC invited Yiannopoulos because the backlash he faced for his college talks were part of a large, chilling effect regarding free speech on campus.

“We understand the alt-right, but it has no voice in conservativism,” Schlapp said. “Bigotry has no voice in conservativism.”

The flap highlighted tensions between traditional conservatives and the alt-right, which helped boost Trump’s bid.

The Republican president, with his threats to void or renegotiate international trade deals and his interest in a multi-billion-dollar infrastructure package, is not exactly a prototype conservative.

But Schlapp said conservatives hope to hear him say, “I know you all did a lot to get me elected,” and perhaps after the four-day event better understand “what they care about.”

The attendance of Trump, the first president since Ronald Reagan to visit CPAC in a first term, has indeed brought some energy to the 44-year-old event.

But other scheduled speakers and events -- including the speech by Pence and a one-on-one Thursday between White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Trump strategist Steve Bannon -- are also attracting a lot of interest.

Bannon and Priebus are reportedly involved in a White House power struggle but say they get along.

Yiannopoulos had worked for Bannon at Breitbart News before Bannon stepped down and Yiannopoulos resigned in the wake of the scandal.

The event concludes Saturday with the annual CPAC straw poll, an early indication of which potential White House candidates have conservative support.

Fox News Channel's Kristin Fisher contributed to this report.I don’t play golf, but this column is a chip shot.

While I’m a tennis and basketball guy, I get that it’s something of an addiction, especially for businessmen, and particularly for presidents.

But I don’t really want to hear that President Trump is spending too much time playing golf. I didn’t want to hear that President Obama spent too much time playing golf. I didn’t want to hear that President Bush spent too much time playing golf.

This is all cheap criticism by partisans on the other side. Presidents are working all the time. It’s important that they be able to relax. Now sometimes business is conducted on the links, but even if they’re just playing 18 holes with their buddies, cut them some slack.

Perhaps Trump’s game is drawing more attention because it’s tied in with his Mar-a-Lago retreats and because he plays at courses that he owns. Or perhaps it’s just because he’s Trump. The Washington Post, after all, once investigated whether he cheats at golf.

“Of the 31 days he has been in office,” the New York Times reported yesterday, “President Trump has spent six of them on a golf course. That amounts to one-fifth of his tenure, including three of his five weekends, as commander in chief.” But can anyone seriously argue that the man isn’t working hard, given the breakneck pace of his first month?

The piece is not overly critical, and notes that one of the president’s outings was with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

Ah, but there is the secrecy issue: “The White House goes to considerable lengths to keep Mr. Trump’s golf game away from scrutiny.” The press pool has to cool its heels in a parking lot or in a clubhouse room whose windows and doors are taped with black plastic.

And there was this incident, which surely calls for a special prosecutor: The White House press office had said Trump played “a couple of holes” last weekend in Florida, but it turns out he played the full 18 with Rory McIlroy. Apparently he decided to keep on golfing with one of the world’s top players.

Now there is one point on which Trump is vulnerable, as the Times notes, and a Politico story makes it the lead sentence:

“Donald Trump regularly assailed President Barack Obama for playing golf, then spent the first weekends of his own presidency doing just that.”

In October 2014, for instance, Trump tweeted: “Can you believe that, with all the problems and difficulties facing the U.S., President Obama spent the day playing golf. Worse than Carter.”



He should get dinged for that. Trump also said last August that as president he wouldn’t have time for golf. Perhaps it’s another case of a new president adjusting to the realities of the office.

Obama played 333 rounds of golf as president, according to CBS’s Mark Knoller, and I don’t recall his supporters being concerned about that. Trump has a long way to go to match that record.

Dwight Eisenhower was seen as obsessed with what was viewed as a rich man’s game, so much so that JFK shielded his golf outings during the 1960 campaign. Bush famously denounced a terror attack to a group of reporters in 2002, then abruptly said “Now watch this drive”—and whacked the ball. The following year Bush gave up golf, out of solidarity with the families of soldiers who were dying in Iraq, he said.

Carping about presidential golf is just like carping about the cost of presidential vacations—a meaningless exercise that is essentially partisan. I’m sure Trump’s critics can find more important matters to club him over the head with.

Howard Kurtz is a Fox News analyst and the host of "MediaBuzz" (Sundays 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. ET). He is the author of five books and is based in Washington. Follow him at @HowardKurtz. Click here for more information on Howard Kurtz.Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway denied Wednesday that the White House had sidelined her from making TV appearances, telling Fox News' "Hannity" that reports to the contrary were "trying to start up trouble."

Conway told Sean Hannity that only "about five percent" of her advisory role to President Trump involves appearing on TV, "and I think that’s about right because he’s the president now and he’s his own best messenger."

However, Conway added that "there are some people, I think, trying to get in my way.

"I’ve ... gobbled up a lot of other people’s TV opportunities so there’s some resentment on the outside, I believe, and folks just trying to use me as clickbait in a headline."

Hours before Conway appeared on "Hannity," CNN reported that administration officials had cut down on her TV appearances after she told MSNBC Feb. 12 that then-national security adviser Michael Flynn had Trump's "full confidence." Flynn resigned hours later.

"I don't think think I have to explain myself if I’m not going to go on TV for a week," Conway said. "If I’m out with four kids for three days looking at houses and schools — a lot of my colleagues aren’t trying to figure out how to be a mother of four kids, I assure you."

Hannity called the CNN report "another example of fake news."

"How many days have you been booked on this show? From today?" he asked.

"It's not even worth arguing," Conway said, "because it actually doesn't bother us."President Donald Trump's revised immigration executive order will drop language indefinitely suspending acceptance of Syrian refugees by U.S. authorities, a senior administration official told Fox News Wendesday.

The new order, which Trump is expected to sign next week, will also add language exempting legal permanent residents, or green-card holders, from a travel ban in a move the administration hopes will remove any reasonable grounds for a legal challenge.

Trump's prior "extreme vetting" order temporarily suspended all travel to the U.S. for citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries for 90 days. A federal judge in Washington state halted enforcement of the order and the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals refused to reinstate it.

The official said that new language in the revised order will make clear that the intent of the action is to "temporarily block the admission of people with no prior status in the U.S. who are currently overseas until a program of extreme vetting can be put in place."

The White House believes that new order will satisy the courts because it is "grounded in existing security determinations," the official said.

The official told Fox News that it is likely that certain classes of visa holders currently in the U.S. or who have been in the U.S. but are currently abroad will be exempted as well. This could include certain student or other education-related visas as well as work permits.

The new order would direct a temporary suspension of admission of all refugees while revised screening meansures are put into place, the official added.

The new order does implement a temporary visa ban for travelers from the same seven countries as the previous executive order: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen.

The revised order will also mandate a 50 percent reduction in refugee admissions for 2017 to just 50,000. According to the White House, approximately 35,000 refugees have already been allowed into the country this year, leaving only about 15,000 slots left for the remainder of the year once the refugee admission program resumes.

Fox News' John Roberts contributed to this report.

The White House said Wednesday it was trying to intervene on behalf of a former CIA agent facing imminent extradition from Portugal to Italy for her alleged role in a counterterrorism operation authorized by the U.S. government some 14 years ago.

Sabrina De Sousa, a former CIA case officer, was detained Monday in Portugal and is awaiting extradition to Italy and four years in prison for the 2003 abduction of a suspected terrorist living in Milan.

The operation was part of the CIA's "extraordinary rendition" program -- and one De Sousa says she was not involved in.

Expand / Contract De Sousa faces prison time in Italy for her role in a CIA interrogation.

"The highest levels of our government are trying to intervene on her behalf," a White House official told Fox News.

"The U.S. government's view is that this [conviction] was a violation of her diplomatic status," the official said. "We're very concerned and following the case closely."

"We are deeply disappointed in her conviction and sentence." - senior State Department official

The State Department said earlier Wednesday it was "deeply disappointed" over the extradition order but declined to elaborate on its discussions with officials in Portugal and Italy.

If extradited as planned, De Sousa, who no longer works for the agency, will be the first CIA officer and U.S. diplomat imprisoned over the controversial rendition program.

De Sousa, 61, was working in Milan as an undercover CIA officer in 2003 when U.S. and Italian intelligence agents abducted radical Egyptian cleric Osama Mustapha Hassan Nasr, also known as Abu Omar, and transported him to his native Egypt for interrogation.

Phone records obtained by Italian prosecutors corroborated De Sousa's claim that she was some 130 miles away in Madonna di Campiglio, Italy, chaperoning her son's school ski trip, on the day Omar was abducted. Still, Italy brought "broad charges" against her for a plot she says she had no direct part in.

The abduction was part of the controversial program, implemented under President George W. Bush, and entailed taking terror suspects to countries where torture is allowed. Omar -- who turned out to be a "nobody," according to De Sousa -- was held at an American military base in Germany before being flown to Cairo, Egypt, where he says he was tortured.

He was soon released from prison for lack of prosecutable evidence against him.

In 2009, De Sousa, along with 25 other Americans, was convicted in absentia on kidnapping and other charges related to the abduction. Several were since pardoned and not one has done time in prison. The Italians also convicted Omar in absentia of "criminal association for the purposes of international terrorism" and sentenced him to six years in prison.

De Sousa described herself as a "scapegoat" for a program authorized by officials at the highest levels of U.S. government.

The former agent, who spent the night in a women's prison near Lisbon after a Portuguese court ordered police to extradite her, said she had hoped President Trump would intervene on her behalf.

"[The Italians] said, 'She was responsible for planning and without her OK, it never would have happened,'" De Sousa told Fox News last month. "And this came third-hand from someone who told an Italian intelligence officer."

"We are being convicted for decisions made for which we had no input at all," she said. "Nobody wants to look any higher, and this is the best way to deflect attention from anyone else."

The former spy, who was born in India and holds both American and Portuguese passports, left the CIA in 2009 and moved to Portugal in April 2015 to be near family.

In October 2015, she was detained at Lisbon's airport on a European arrest warrant while attempting to travel to India. She was later released but ordered to remain in Portugal.

The series of events that followed amount to an international legal nightmare.

Italy first sought extradition of De Sousa with the guarantee of a retrial or appeal with new evidence, acknowledging she had been tried in absentia. Based on these guarantees, the Portuguese courts agreed to extradite.

But in June 2016, Italy sent Portugal a letter saying De Sousa's conviction was final, and no retrial would be granted. In a move that shocked De Sousa and others in the intelligence community, Portugal's high court ordered her immediate extradition.Over 100 women within a nine-hour time span got Sen. Mitch McConnell's quote "Nevertheless, she persisted" tattooed on their bodies at a Minneapolis tattoo shop on Tuesday.

The now infamous quote by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) references when Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.) was blocked from speaking against the nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions (R., Ala.) for attorney general.

Although the quote comes from a Republican senator, this did not stop a growing line of people from waiting outside the Brass Knuckle Tattoo Studio to have his words tattooed on their bodies, the Star Tribune reports.

For every woman they tried to silence. pic.twitter.com/MVxj9rJauv — Chris (@ChrisCrocker) February 8, 2017

The quote quickly gained momentum. Various apparel and items donning the quote popped up online after the incident.

But Nora McInerny, a well known blogger, never thought her tattoo idea would reach so many people. She originally created a Facebook event for a few friends to get the quote tattooed in order to raise money for charity.

Click for more from The Washington Free Beacon.Sen. John McCain made a secret trip to northern Syria to visit U.S. military officials and Kurdish fighters and to discuss the campaign for defeating the Islamic State, his office said Wednesday.

McCain, R-Ariz., made the visit to the war-torn country as U.S.-coalition forces prepare for a major battled to oust militants from ISIS’ de facto capital of Raqqa. A statement from the senator's office did not give the dates of his travel, saying only that he made the visit last week.

"Senator McCain's visit was a valuable opportunity to assess dynamic conditions on the ground in Syria and Iraq," the statement reads. It says the president "has rightly ordered a review of U.S. strategy and plans to defeat" the Islamic State group and McCain looks forward to working with the administration and military leaders "to optimize our approach."

Officials told The Wall Street Journal that the visit was arranged with help from the U.S. military. It comes as the Trump administration debates plans for an increased military campaign against ISIS. President Trump had previously asked the U.S. military to present him with a new plan to destroy ISIS. The report is supposed to be finished by the end of the month.

U.S. officials familiar with the visit told the Journal that McCain traveled to Kobani, which sits along the Syria-Turkey border and has been controlled by Kurdish forces since 2012.

McCain, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and one of Trump’s biggest critics, recently declared Trump’s administration was in disarray and expressed concern over how national security decisions were being handled.

During a speech Friday at the Munich Security Conference, McCain delivered a withering critique of Trump's worldview as he lamented a shift in the U.S. and Europe away from the "universal values" that forged the Western alliance 70 years ago.

McCain on Monday welcomed Trump's selection of Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster to be his national security adviser, calling the pick an "outstanding choice."

McCain first visited Syria in 2013 to meet with leaders of the Free Syrian Army, which is backed by U.S. forces and is the opposition to Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad. The trip is believed to be his first since then, according to The Wall Street Journal. He’s also believed to be the first U.S. lawmaker to travel to Kurdish-controlled region of Syria since the U.S. made it its base for special-forces operations.

It's unusual, however, for members of Congress to visit Syria, which has no diplomatic relations with the United States. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, generated a backlash when she visited Syria in January and met with Assad. Gabbard, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, is an outspoken opponent of what she's called "our counterproductive regime change war" in Syria.

But Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., an Air Force veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, said Gabbard gave Assad credibility by meeting with him.

Lawmakers have accused the Assad government of war crimes and even genocide as the number of people killed during the violence in Syria continues to mount. The war, now in its sixth year, has killed hundreds of thousands of people, contributed to Europe's worst refugee crisis since World War II and given the Islamic State group room to grow into a global terror threat.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Click for more from The Wall Street Journal.U.S. Sen. Susan Collins said on Wednesday she’s open to using a subpoena to investigate President Donald Trump’s tax returns for potential connections to Russia.

Collins, a Republican who has served as a U.S. senator from Maine since 1997, sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. She appeared on Maine Public radio to talk about issues including the investigation.

Collins was asked if the committee would subpoena Trump, who’s also a Republican. She said she hopes for “voluntary cooperation” but is open to using a subpoena if necessary.

“This is a counter-intelligence operation in many ways. That’s what our committee specializes in,” she said during the radio appearance. “We are used to probing in depth in this area.”

Trump’s refusal to disclose his tax returns is a break with presidential tradition. He has said he would be happy to release them after the completion of an Internal Revenue Service audit.

Using a subpoena to get access to the tax returns would be a more aggressive move than members of Congress have taken on the subject so far. House and Senate leaders have thus far shown no interest in taking such a step.

Last week, House Republicans blocked an attempt by Democrats to use an obscure law to obtain the tax returns from the IRS. Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee tried to frame the issue as a matter of national security, questioning whether Trump has any investments in Russia.

Collins also said during the radio appearance that she and other intelligence committee members will call for former national security adviser Michael Flynn to testify before the committee. Flynn resigned following reports that he had misled officials about his contacts with Russia.

Collins said the committee is in the midst of a “broad investigation” about Russian interference and it’s too early to speculate about the results.

She touted the “bipartisan” nature of the committee’s probe and pledged: “We will get to the bottom of this.”A new poll released Wednesday adds a new element for congressional Republicans to consider about their repeal-and-replace approach to former-President Obama’s cornerstone legislation: more American voters appear to be support the law.

According to a Politico/Morning Consult poll, there is an even split between registered voters who support the law and those who oppose it. Currently, 45 percent approve of the legislation compared to a poll back in January—before President Trump took office—that showed 41 percent of voters approved of the bill.

VIDEO: UPROAR AT TOWN HALLS AIMED AT REPUBLICANS OVER OBAMACARE

Kyle Dropp, the co-founder of Morning Consult, told Politico that the closer ObamaCare comes to the chopping block, its weekly poll “has shown an uptick in the law’s popularity.”

The only item in the poll that remained unpopular was the individual mandate.

Trump, who said during his campaign that he will replace the law with “something far better,” has tried to calm critics who say Republicans are divided on the issue.

Trump has been edging away from the promise to quickly eliminate the entire law. Still, annulling its taxes would be a partial victory and is irresistible for many GOP lawmakers and the conservative voters at the core of their support.

"We should do full repeal," said Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, a leading House conservative. "And full repeal means not taking the taxes" from people.

DR. MARC SIEGEL'S ADVICE FOR THE OBAMACARE TRANSITION

Despite the law’s apparent increase in popularity, just last week the CEO of Aetna said in an interview that the law is in a “death spiral” because younger, healthier people have dropped out while premiums continue to climb.

Under the 2010 law, people are required to have health coverage or risk fines from the IRS -- a penalty usually deducted from a taxpayer's refund. That underlying requirement remains on the books, and taxpayers are still legally obligated to comply, the IRS said.

But the agency is changing its approach to enforcement. Originally, the IRS had planned to start rejecting returns this year if a taxpayer failed to indicate whether he or she had coverage. Now the IRS says it will keep processing such returns, as it has in the past.

Many of the law's supporters consider the coverage requirement essential for nudging younger, healthy people into the insurance pool to keep premiums in check.

Edmund DeMarche is a news editor for FoxNews.com. Follow him on Twitter @EDeMarche.

Syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer said Wednesday on “Special Report with Bret Baier” that while many Americans are hoping the Republican-led Congress will tackle big ticket items like tax reform and health care this year, legislators in Washington seem incapable of acting on their own.

“Here we have united government, or at least same party controlling everything, with a lot of momentum… And the great irony is that Congress has become so dependent on following the lead of a president, in general, [it is] allowing its powers to be usurped,” Krauthammer said.

“One presidency after another, this is not the product of one party. But it's simply, now that it's in control, [Congress] can't get its act together,” he added.

Instead, Krauthammer said lawmakers will continue to look to the White House for guidance.

“Unless you get strong presidential leadership, the president, say, next week in his quasi-State of the Union address saying this is what I want on tax reform and leading on it, that would be the decisive event,” he said, adding, “In the absence of that, it's showing how, sort of, weak Congress has become, and how it's become habituated to looking to the White House for leadership. It's not getting it, it's not going anywhere.”The Trump administration Wednesday revoked federal guidelines issued by former President Barack Obama that allowed public school students to use restrooms and other facilities corresponding to their gender identity.

A document submitted to the Supreme Court by the Solicitor General's office said that the Obama-era directive issued this past May did not "undergo any formal public process" or explain how the directive was "consistent with the express language of Title IX," the federal law outlawing sex discrimination in education and activities.

"This is an issue best solved at the state and local level," Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said. "Schools, communities, and families can find -- and in many cases have found -- solutions that protect all students."

"Congress, state legislatures, and local governments are in a position to adopt appropriate policies or laws addressing this issue," Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement. "The Department of Justice remains committed to the proper interpretation and enforcement of Title IX and to its protections for all students, including LGBTQ students, from discrimination, bullying, and harassment.”



In a letter to the nation's schools, the Justice and Education departments said the earlier guidance "has given rise to significant litigation regarding school restrooms and locker rooms."



The agencies withdrew the guidance to "in order to further and more completely consider the legal issues involved."

Anti-bullying safeguards would not be affected by the change, according to the letter. "All schools must ensure that all students, including LGBT students, are able to learn and thrive in a safe environment," it said.



It was not clear what immediate impact the change would have on schools, as a federal judge in Texas put a temporary hold on the Obama guidance soon after it was issued -- after 13 states sued.

Even without that hold, the guidance carried no force of law. But transgender rights advocates say it was useful and necessary to protect students from discrimination. Opponents argued it was federal overreach and violated the safety and privacy of other students.



The White House said "returning power to the states paves the way for an open and inclusive process to take place at the local level with input from parents, students, teachers and administrators."



The reversal is a setback for transgender rights groups, which had been urging Trump to keep the guidelines in place. Advocates say federal law will still prohibit discrimination against students based on their gender or sexual orientation.



Still, they say lifting the Obama directive puts children in harm's way.

"Reversing this guidance tells trans kids that it's OK with the Trump administration and the Department of Education for them to be abused and harassed at school for being trans," said American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten.



Activists protested the move Wednesday outside the White House. "Respect existence or expect resistance," read one placard.



Conservatives hailed the change, saying the Obama directives were illegal and violated the rights of fixed-gender students, especially girls who did not feel safe changing clothes or using restrooms next to anatomical males.



"Our daughters should never be forced to share private, intimate spaces with male classmates, even if those young men are struggling with these issues," said Vicki Wilson, a member of Students and Parents for Privacy. "It violates their right to privacy and harms their dignity."



White House spokesman Sean Spicer denied media reports that DeVos, who has been criticized for her stance on LGBT issues, had opposed the change but was overruled by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Spicer said any disagreement was merely over wording and timing.



"There is no daylight between anybody," Spicer said, adding that DeVos was "100 percent" on board with the decision.



Legal experts said the change in position could impact pending court cases involving the federal sex discrimination law, including a case to be heard by the Supreme Court in March involving Gavin Grimm, a transgender teen who was denied bathroom access in Virginia.

The justices could decide not to hear the case and direct lower courts to decide that issue.



In a phone interview with the Associated Press, Grimm said of the Trump action: "It's not positive. It has the possibility of hurting transgender students and transgender people. We're going to keep fighting like we have been and keep fighting for the right thing."



A patchwork of state laws could continue to emerge as a result of the change. Fifteen states have explicit protections for transgender students in their state laws, and many individual school districts in other states have adopted policies that cover such students on the basis of their gender identity, said Sarah Warbelow, legal director of the Human Rights Campaign. Just one state, North Carolina, has enacted a law restricting access to bathrooms in government-owned buildings to the sex that appears on a person's birth certificate. Lawmakers in more than 10 states are considering similar legislation, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.



Fox News' Shannon Bream and the Associated Press contributed to this report.**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.**



On the roster: On the current fascination with crowds - Tillerson, Kelly head to Mexico to repair relations - Parties seek footholds in shifting electoral landscape - Trump vows to ‘clean up’ federal finances - What is 9+1+1?

ON THE CURRENT FASCINATION WITH CROWDS

Funny thing: The current era of politics was supposed to be all about connecting far-flung people through the use of social media and technology, but the ultimate political currency has actually become the crowd.

No, we are not talking about “crowdsourcing” or “crowd funding” or any of that virtual jabberwocky, but rather good, old-fashioned throngs of humanity, pressed cheek-by-jowl, looking for a place to park and a public restroom.

The current crowd fascination relates to the town hall events being hosted by members of Congress during their almost-compulsory visits home during this President’s Day week.

Just as Democrats were flummoxed eight years ago, Republicans now find themselves a bit adrift on what to do when the rabble gets roused and shouting ensues.

Some in the GOP, including the president, are following the playbook Democrats used when they dismissed the Tea Party-steeped crowds of 2009 and 2010.

When President Trump dismissed the “so-called angry crowds” as stunts “planned out by liberal activists,” he sounded pretty much like Nancy Pelosi back in the day as she blew off town hall protests as, “funded by the high end — we call it AstroTurf – it’s not really a grassroots movement.”

Pelosi said the crowds were a trick being played by “the wealthiest people in America” to keep voters focused on then-President Obama’s floundering health law, rather than efforts to raise taxes on the wealthy.

The then-speaker of the House was correct. And Trump is correct now. But both only partly.

As Rich Lowry points out, Republicans would be just as foolish to ignore the phenomenon of large-scale protests at their town halls as Democrats were. Republicans should pay attention if only for the fact that it reflects the intensity on the other side and the effectiveness of the very organizations Trump deplores.

Who knows the power of crowds better than Trump, who in his presidential campaign delivered more attendance estimates than the PA announcer at Busch Stadium?

Trump winced for weeks at his less-than recording-breaking inaugural crowds for the same reason he constantly touted, sometimes even accurately, the size of his campaign rallies.

Pelosi also understood the power of crowds after watching the phenomenal success Obama had in gathering enormous throngs during his maiden presidential run, even overseas.

Not since Hands Across America sought to raise money for homelessness, or Africa or something 30 years ago, has American public life focused so much on getting large numbers of humans to go be in the same place at the same time.

One of the first uses devised for electronic messaging was the “flashmob” in which people would gather for a snowball fight or to perform George Frideric Handel’s “Messiah” or to all dress up like Mr. T, or whatever twee delight they could imagine.

Like Aquaman, our new connectedness gives us the power to summon support to our side: send the message and they come swimming.

The ability to perform this feat has become a yardstick by which we judge our politicians and political movements. The fact that a group of women protesting Trump the weekend after his inauguration outdrew the inauguration itself was deemed to have significance.

Certainly, getting people to spend their Saturday wearing pink hats and listening to Madonna talk is a sign of some considerable intensity. But left-leaning Washington, D.C. is a much easier place for liberal activists to organize than it is for a Republican president. There were big rallies across the country, but from a statistical point of view getting one percent of the electorate to turnout doesn’t mean anything.

But from a statistical point of view, neither did it mean anything for Trump to get 10,000 people to jam inside a hangar at a Florida airport to sweat to the strains of “Phantom of the Opera” and the Rolling Stones.

Most Americans alive today have dim memory or no memory at all of the 1960s when crowd size last mattered so much. Civil Rights Movement and the anti-Vietnam War effort both made mass demonstrations the cornerstone of their strategy to shift public opinion.

Filling the National Mall for civil rights or shutting down Chicago over Vietnam seem foreign now, but maybe not for long.

Richard Nixon’s “silent majority” was all about the political power of the people who weren’t turning out to protest in the 1960s. His heir Trump’s movement might better have been called the “boisterous plurality.” Their willingness to make noise in large numbers elevated their stature beyond their actual size.

Our current fascination with crowds – in part because of our fascination with the technology that creates them – may be ushering in a new era where mass demonstrations dominate.

We once imagined a future in which polling, mass media and interconnectedness might allow for a rather bloodless politics in which our preferences, opinions and eventually, even our votes, to whir past each other in the antiseptic confines of cyberspace.

Instead, we are in era in which flesh-and-blood crowds are what confer legitimacy on a political movement or candidate.

The political “revolutions” that we have seen rock other Western countries in recent years may be harbingers of America’s future in which political power is determined by getting feet in the street.


TILLERSON, KELLY HEAD TO MEXICO TO REPAIR RELATIONS

LAT: “Few international relationships have gotten off to a rockier start for the Trump administration than the one with Mexico. Days after he took office, President Trump argued on the phone and on Twitter with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto over Trump’s demand that Mexico pay to build a tall wall along the border. Peña Nieto repeated his blanket refusal to pay for a wall — and then rebuffed Trump by canceling a planned visit to the White House. On Wednesday, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly will fly to Mexico City in an attempt to repair the relationship, which went into a tailspin during the presidential race last year when Trump frequently used anti-Mexican rhetoric, and has yet to recover.”

Several posts at State Dept. remain vacant - WashTimes: “The State Department’s press office and Mr. Tillerson’s office have declined to comment on the more than 100 management posts and foreign ambassadorships awaiting even a nominee, let alone a Senate confirmation. Just three ambassadors — to China, Israel and Britain — have been named.”

PARTIES SEEK FOOTHOLDS IN SHIFTING ELECTORAL LANDSCAPE

Josh Kraushaar maps the terrain in the fight for former Rep. Tom Price’s suburban Atlanta House district: “The dis­trict is filled with the type of col­lege-edu­cated voters who have grav­it­ated away from Trump—in­clud­ing in­de­pend­ents who don’t have strong par­tis­an loy­al­ties but tend to vote Re­pub­lic­an. El­ev­en Re­pub­lic­ans will be fight­ing against each oth­er on an all-party primary bal­lot, mak­ing it likely the even­tu­al GOP stand­ard-bear­er will be wounded head­ing in­to an ex­pec­ted run­off. Trump’s pres­id­ency has got­ten off to a rocky start, giv­ing any Demo­crat plenty of ma­ter­i­al to work with. But the early Demo­crat­ic fa­vor­ite in the race is about as awk­ward a fit for this par­tic­u­lar dis­trict as Demo­crats could find.”

Fred Barnes looks at the challenges for Republicans in the previously friendly confines of suburban Houston: “For Republicans, it was literally a wipeout. Even so, that doesn't quite capture how bad it was for them. The Democratic sweep underlined how rapidly the GOP is fading in Harris County, third population-wise among the nation's counties. In 2012, Mitt Romney lost to Barack Obama by 971 votes. In 2016, Trump lost to Clinton by 161,511. She beat Trump by a larger margin than former Texas governor and President George W. Bush achieved in his two presidential campaigns.”

[Dems eye Virginia governor race as test case for 2018.]

TRUMP VOWS TO ‘CLEAN UP’ FEDERAL FINANCES

Roll Call: “Trump, during a meeting with senior aides about the federal budget…repeated his pledge to produce a health care plan next month. He said it should be rolled out ‘maybe mid-to-early March,’ saying his White House will be “submitting something” to Congress ‘that I think people will be very impressed by.’ Trump also signaled he favors deep federal budget cuts, saying the government ‘must do a lot more with less.’ ‘The finances of this country are a mess, but we’re going to clean that up,’ Trump told reporters, according to a pool report…Trump also deflected any blame for the country’s finances, despite being all too willing to take credit for any positive economic signs…Trump again vowed to renegotiate federal contracts, saying his administration already has ‘saved a lot — billions and billions of dollars.’ President Trump met with Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, senior adviser Jared Kushner, chief strategist Steve Bannon, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, and OMB officials Russ Vought and Emma Doyle over lunch to discuss the federal budget.”

Sabrina De Sousa, a former CIA case officer, was detained Monday in Portugal and is awaiting extradition to Italy and four years in prison for the 2003 abduction of a suspected terrorist living in Milan.

The operation was part of the CIA's "extraordinary rendition" program -- and one De Sousa says she was not involved in.

Expand / Contract De Sousa faces prison time in Italy for her role in a CIA interrogation.

"The highest levels of our government are trying to intervene on her behalf," a White House official told Fox News.

"The U.S. government's view is that this [conviction] was a violation of her diplomatic status," the official said. "We're very concerned and following the case closely."

"We are deeply disappointed in her conviction and sentence." - senior State Department official

The State Department said earlier Wednesday it was "deeply disappointed" over the extradition order but declined to elaborate on its discussions with officials in Portugal and Italy.

If extradited as planned, De Sousa, who no longer works for the agency, will be the first CIA officer and U.S. diplomat imprisoned over the controversial rendition program.

De Sousa, 61, was working in Milan as an undercover CIA officer in 2003 when U.S. and Italian intelligence agents abducted radical Egyptian cleric Osama Mustapha Hassan Nasr, also known as Abu Omar, and transported him to his native Egypt for interrogation.

Phone records obtained by Italian prosecutors corroborated De Sousa's claim that she was some 130 miles away in Madonna di Campiglio, Italy, chaperoning her son's school ski trip, on the day Omar was abducted. Still, Italy brought "broad charges" against her for a plot she says she had no direct part in.

The abduction was part of the controversial program, implemented under President George W. Bush, and entailed taking terror suspects to countries where torture is allowed. Omar -- who turned out to be a "nobody," according to De Sousa -- was held at an American military base in Germany before being flown to Cairo, Egypt, where he says he was tortured.

He was soon released from prison for lack of prosecutable evidence against him.

In 2009, De Sousa, along with 25 other Americans, was convicted in absentia on kidnapping and other charges related to the abduction. Several were since pardoned and not one has done time in prison. The Italians also convicted Omar in absentia of "criminal association for the purposes of international terrorism" and sentenced him to six years in prison.

De Sousa described herself as a "scapegoat" for a program authorized by officials at the highest levels of U.S. government.

The former agent, who spent the night in a women's prison near Lisbon after a Portuguese court ordered police to extradite her, said she had hoped President Trump would intervene on her behalf.

"[The Italians] said, 'She was responsible for planning and without her OK, it never would have happened,'" De Sousa told Fox News last month. "And this came third-hand from someone who told an Italian intelligence officer."

"We are being convicted for decisions made for which we had no input at all," she said. "Nobody wants to look any higher, and this is the best way to deflect attention from anyone else."

The former spy, who was born in India and holds both American and Portuguese passports, left the CIA in 2009 and moved to Portugal in April 2015 to be near family.

In October 2015, she was detained at Lisbon's airport on a European arrest warrant while attempting to travel to India. She was later released but ordered to remain in Portugal.

The series of events that followed amount to an international legal nightmare.

Italy first sought extradition of De Sousa with the guarantee of a retrial or appeal with new evidence, acknowledging she had been tried in absentia. Based on these guarantees, the Portuguese courts agreed to extradite.

But in June 2016, Italy sent Portugal a letter saying De Sousa's conviction was final, and no retrial would be granted. In a move that shocked De Sousa and others in the intelligence community, Portugal's high court ordered her immediate extradition.The Trump administration’s plan to ship illegal immigrants who enter the U.S. through Mexico back across the border regardless of their homeland could be one of many thorny issues Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will face on his first official trip to Mexico City on Wednesday.

A pair of DHS enforcement memos released Tuesday effectively carried out the executive actions on immigration that President Trump signed last month. They covered everything from the planning and construction of a U.S.-Mexico border wall to stepped-up deportations to the hiring of more enforcement agents.

But in one of the biggest shifts, the DHS called for using a long-standing but obscure U.S. law to send some illegal immigrants back to Mexico even if they are from other countries.

Previous U.S. policy called for only Mexican citizens to be sent to Mexico. Migrants known as "OTMs" — Other Than Mexicans — got flown back to their homelands.

Under the updated policy guidance, the U.S. would return certain illegal border crossers “to the foreign contiguous territory from which they arrived.” According to DHS, doing so “saves the Department’s detention and adjudication resources for other priority aliens.”

But some advocates and officials in Mexico – where President Trump’s immigration policies have long been unpopular – already are saying they’re not prepared to take those migrants back.

“Not in any way, shape or form," the Rev. Patrick Murphy, a priest who runs the Casa del Migrante shelter in the border city of Tijuana, told The Associated Press.

It's unclear whether the United States has the authority to force Mexico to accept third-country nationals.

"I hope Mexico has the courage to say no to this," Murphy said.

Victor Clark, director of Tijuana's Binational Center for Human Rights, said Mexico can simply refuse to accept non-Mexican deportees. "They come through one by one, and when the Mexican immigration agent sees a person who isn't Mexican, he tells the ICE agent, 'I can't accept this person, he's not Mexican,' and they return him to the United States."

The new policy could result in new deportee and refugee camps along the border, raising the question of which government should pay for new facilities.

Mexican officials repeatedly have rejected Trump’s demand that they foot the bill for his ordered southern border wall. For Tillerson, the deportation change is yet another issue fueling tensions between the U.S. and Mexico that he likely will confront on his visit this week – along with questions about the wall, U.S.-Mexico trade and more.

Mexico's government did not formally react to the DHS policy statements.

But in a hearing with Mexican senators, Mexico's new ambassador to the United States, Geronimo Gutierrez, said, "Obviously, they are a cause for concern for the foreign relations department, for the Mexican government, and for all Mexicans."

Gutierrez, though, praised the Trump administration's release of the policies before Tillerson’s visit, calling that "a position that is much more straightforward and honorable, to make these positions known beforehand ... so they can be discussed."

There are precedents in Mexico for refugee camps.

In the 1980s and 1990s, Mexico took in about 46,000 Guatemalans fleeing civil war. With help from the United Nations, camps were set up in the southern states of Chiapas, Campeche and Quintana Roo. When peace accords were signed in Guatemala in the mid-1990s, almost 43,000 refugees and their children went home, but more than 30,000 Guatemalans and their children born in Mexico decided to stay.

The same thing could happen with any migrants housed in Mexico.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.President Trump started the day by touring the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African-American History.

Then he gave an exclusive interview to Craig Melvin, a black correspondent for NBC, addressing the recent rise in bomb threats against Jewish community centers. “Anti-Semitism is horrible,” he said. “And it’s gonna stop and it has to stop…Whether it's anti-Semitism or racism or anything you want to think about having to do with the divide. Anti-Semitism is, likewise, it's just terrible.”

This felt like something of a reset for a president who has been battered by negative headlines and management missteps during his first month in office. And it came on the heels of Trump drawing widespread praise for tapping Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster as national security adviser, and boosting the Border Patrol while easing deportation guidelines.

Trump is a divisive figure, as the mainstream media endlessly remind us. And it’s not hard to understand why his past rhetoric on Muslims and Mexicans, and his current actions on the wall and the temporary travel ban, would reinforce that impression.

But the president’s trip to the museum—with HUD Secretary Ben Carson, the subject of an exhibit there—was not out of left field. During the fall campaign, he visited some black communities and churches and repeatedly talked about reducing crime and poverty in the inner cities. He mentioned that in his inaugural address as well.

The pundits tended to dismiss Trump’s appeals because Hillary Clinton, like most Democrats, drew overwhelming black support. Trump yesterday quoted Martin Luther King and declared that “we’re going to bring this country together.” A museum visit is symbolic, of course, but symbolism matters in politics.

There has been a growing drumbeat for the president to denounce the rise in anti-Semitic vandalism and threats. His daughter Ivanka, who converted to Judaism when she married Jared Kushner, did that on Monday. And her dad, who joined in yesterday, also said he would visit the Holocaust Museum.

But Politico’s headline captured the it’s-about-time narrative: “Trump Finally Confronts Anti-Semitism Head-On.”

At the press briefing, several reporters asked Sean Spicer why Trump had waited so long and whether he was “comfortable” delivering such a message.

“I think that it’s ironic that no matter how many times he talks about this that it’s never good enough,” Spicer said.

If the president had any hesitation, it may be because of the emerging narrative that he is somehow to blame for the increase in anti-Jewish incidents since the election. I always think it’s unfair to blame a political leader for violence or vandalism carried out by people who support him. I felt the same way about critics who blamed Barack Obama for urban riots or shootings of police officers.

Yes, the White House statement on Holocaust remembrance should have mentioned the wholesale slaughter of Jews, but it’s a long way from that misstep to the suggestion that he was tolerating a rise in anti-Semitism. These are hate crimes, pure and simple.

Those who criticized Trump for not speaking out earlier should at least give him his due for speaking out now, unless they somehow believe he should do everything on their timetable.

Howard Kurtz is a Fox News analyst and the host of "MediaBuzz" (Sundays 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. ET). He is the author of five books and is based in Washington. Follow him at @HowardKurtz. Click here for more information on Howard Kurtz.The Trump administration is working to undo an Obama-era directive that allows students to use school restrooms that correspond with their gender identity, the White House said Tuesday.

White House spokesman Sean Spicer did not go into specifics on the new set of guidelines being prepared by the Justice Department, but said Trump has long held that such matters should be left to the states -- not the federal government -- to decide.

“I think that all you have to do is look at what the president's view has been for a long time, that this is not something the federal government should be involved in, this is a states' rights issue," Spicer said.

The Washington Post obtained a draft of the letter to the nation’s schools, which is planned to be released Wednesday.

The White House plans to say that they are rolling back the directive allowing transgender students access to restrooms and allowing them to participate in school athletics according to their gender identity and not their gender at birth.

The letter also states that the directive “has given rise to significant litigation” and administrators, parents and students “struggled” to understand and implement the Obama administration’s guidance.

The White House will insist that schools must protect all students and the undoing of the directive “does not diminish the protections" available to all students.

Trump was a vocal critic about the Obama administration’s guidance during the 2016 campaign.

Trump said in a phone interview on “Fox & Friends” in May 2016 that the directive was becoming a “massive story” despite it only affecting a “tiny, tiny” percentage of the population.

"It's a new issue and right now, I just don't have an opinion. I’d like to see the states make that decision," Trump said at the time.

Trump was also outspoken about North Carolina passing a law on bathroom use by transgender people.

"I love North Carolina, and they have a law, and it's a law that, you know, unfortunately is causing them some problems," Trump told Fox News’ Sean Hannity in an April 2016 interview. "And I fully understand that they want to go through, but they are losing business, and they are having people come out against."

"I think that local communities and states should make the decision," he went on to say. "And I feel very strongly about that. The federal government should not be involved."

Fifteen states have explicit protections for transgender students, and many individual school districts have adopted policies that recognize students on the basis of their gender identity, said Sarah Warbelow, legal director of the Human Rights Campaign.

Only one state-- North Carolina-- has enacted a law restricting students' bathroom access to their sex at birth. Other states are considering following suit.

Vanita Gupta, who was head of the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division under Obama, blasted the Trump administration's attempt to alter the guidelines.

"To cloak this in federalism ignores the vital and historic role that federal law plays in ensuring that all children, (including LGBT students) are able to attend school free from discrimination," Gupta said in a statement.

Even without Obama's guidelines, federal law — called Title IX — would still prohibit discrimination against students based on their gender or sexual orientation, the National Center for Transgender Equality said. Rescinding those directives would put children in harm's way, the group said.

"Such clear action directed at children would be a brazen and shameless attack on hundreds of thousands of young Americans who must already defend themselves against schoolyard bullies, but are ill-equipped to fight bullies on the floors of their state legislatures and in the White House," NCTE said in a statement.

But Ryan Anderson, a senior research fellow with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said students, parents and teachers should work out "win-win" solutions at the local level, such as equipping schools with single-occupancy restrooms or locker rooms or allowing students to access the faculty lounge.

"We can find a way in which the privacy and safety of transgender students is respected while also respecting the privacy and safety of all other students," Anderson said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Ryan Gaydos is a news editor for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter @Gaydosland.Senior White House Policy Adviser Stephen Miller told Fox News' "First 100 Days" Tuesday that a revised version of President Donald Trump's travel ban would "have the same basic policy outcome."

Miller claimed that the new executive order would be "responsive" to federal court rulings which halted the original order and resolve "a lot of very technical issues that were brought up by the court."

However, Miller also insisted that the court ruling staying the original order was "flawed" and "erroneous" and that Trump's action was "clearly legal and constitutional."

DHS SECRETARY ORDERS IMMIGRATION AGENT HIRING SURGE, END TO 'CATCH-AND-RELEASE'

"Here's the reality," Miller said. "We’ve got a serious problem in our country of terrorism, radicalization and serious problems of people joining ISIS, joining terror groups, joining Al Qaeda and committing or attempting to commit acts of crime and terror against our nation."

Miller indicated the revised order would apply to the same seven majority-Muslim countries — Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Sudan and Libya — as the previous order.

Miller spoke to host Martha MacCallum at the top of an hour-long immigration town hall in Jacksonville, Fla. hours after Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly directed agency heads to hire thousands more immigration officers, end so-called “catch-and-release” policies and begin work on the president’s promised U.S.-Mexico border wall.

NEW IMMIGRATION POLICIES DRAW PRAISE AND ALARM

Through a show of hands, most of the town hall audience indicated that they supported Trump's tough stance on illegal immigration.

"I think [Miller's] main argument was right on point," said audience member Jack Capra. "Securing our borders is a national security issue [and] it's the federal government's job to keep our citizens safe from external and internal threats. I think immigration is a big contributor to that."

However, immigration attorney Francisco Hernandez told MacCallum that Trump's ordered immigration enforcement changes had "written a blank check that he can't cash."

"He’s going to have to get the money from somewhere," Hernandez said, "and we don’t have the money."

In last year's presidential election, a Fox News exit poll found that 10 percent of Florida voters said immigration was the biggest issue facing the country. Of those voters, 69 percent backed Trump over Hillary Clinton.John Podesta, the former chairman of Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, said Monday "forces within the FBI" may have wanted her to lose.

“There are at least forces within the FBI that wanted her to lose,” Podesta said during an interview with the website NewCo, Politico reported. “I’m not sure they really understood the alternative, but they wanted her to lose. I think that’s one possibility.”

The report said that Podesta did not offer any specific evidence to advance the argument, but Democrats have not been shy in the past to criticized FBI Director James Comey’s decision to—11 days before the election—alert Congress about the agency looking into additional emails.

“He (Comey) made a bad judgment, and I think virtually anybody who had opined on the topic…have said it was a terrible mistake of judgment.”

Podesta has not been shy about assigning blame for the election loss. In December, he said that Russian President Vladimir Putin was indeed “personally involved” in the election email hacks because Russia wanted Donald Trump as its “lap dog” in the White House.

“Russia clearly intervened,” Podesta said on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” in a series of carefully worded responses about who was behind the hacked emails and their impact on Clinton’s losing campaign.

In an op-ed in The Washington Post, he argued the FBI more thoroughly investigated Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state, compared to the email hacking, which started this past July with the Democratic National Committee.

Podesta wrote “something is deeply broken at the FBI” and that the email hacking purportedly by the Russians.EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt worked closely with major oil and gas producers, electric utilities and political groups to roll back numerous environmental regulations during his time as Oklahoma’s attorney general, new records reveal.

An Oklahoma judge ordered the release of thousands of emails between Pruitt and fossil fuel companies like Koch Industries and Devon Energy last week -- after he and the state AG's office were accused of ignoring multiple records requests.

The group that sought the emails, the Center for Media and Democracy, pointed to the messages to accuse Pruitt of being too close to the industries he'll now regulate.

“The newly released emails reveal a close and friendly relationship between Scott Pruitt’s office and the fossil fuel industry,” Nick Surgey, research director at CMD, said in a statement Wednesday.

The emails were released days after Pruitt was narrowly confirmed by the Senate to lead the EPA. Pruitt was an outspoken critic of the agency's policies during the Obama administration, and the emails shed light on how he fought against its regulations.

One email showed that American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers coordinated opposition in 2013 to both the Renewable Fuel Standard Program and ozone limits with Pruitt’s office.

CMD said the group provided Pruitt with "template language" for an Oklahoma petition, under the assumption that the argument "is more credible coming from a State."

Pruitt filed opposition to both the RFS and ozone limits in 2013.

Other emails highlight the apparently close relationship Pruitt had with Devon Energy. The company helped Pruitt draft language in a letter he sent to the EPA about the limiting of methane from oil and gas fracking, according to CMD.

Devon also helped organize a meeting between Pruitt, coal industry lawyer Paul Seby and Leonard Leo of the Federalist Society to create a “clearinghouse” that would “assist AGs in addressing federalism issues.”

Devon defended its relationship with Pruitt, telling Fox News that its ties were "consistent -- and proportionate -- with our commitment to engage in conversations with policymakers on a broad range of matters that promote jobs, economic growth and a robust domestic energy sector."

In another email dated August 2013, Matt Ball, an executive at Americans for Prosperity, sent Pruitt an email thanking him and his “respective bosses and all they are doing to push back against President Obama’s EPA and its axis with liberal environmental groups to increase energy costs for Oklahomans and American families across the states.”

Pruitt was confirmed to head up the EPA after a lengthy floor debate in the Senate. Democrats blasted him for vowing to roll back Obama-era environmental regulations and took issue with past comments he made where he challenged the science behind climate change.

Republicans, fed up with overregulation, argued Pruitt was the right candidate to scale back the size and reach of the EPA.

Pruitt delivered his first remarks to EPA employees on Tuesday, urging them to "avoid" regulatory "abuses" and balance economic and environmental needs.

“We as an agency and we as a nation can be both pro-energy and jobs and we can be pro-environment, and we don’t have to choose between the two,” Pruitt said.

It was on the eve of his confirmation that Pruitt was ordered by the judge to turn over more than 2,000 documents. Democrats used the development to push for a delay in the vote, but did not succeed.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell slammed efforts to postpone the vote as another delay tactic by Democrats that was “unprecedented, harmful and pointless.”

Arn Pearson, general counsel for CMD accused the AG's office of trying to "evade public scrutiny" by releasing the emails Tuesday night.

Calls to the EPA for comment were not returned.The Social Security Administration paid $1 billion in benefits to individuals who did not have a Social Security Number (SSN), according to a new audit.

The agency’s inspector general found errors in the government’s documentation for representative payees, otherwise known as individuals who receive retirement or disability payments on behalf of another person who is incapable of managing the benefits themselves.

The audit released Friday found thousands of cases where there was no SSN on file.

Over the last decade, the agency paid $1 billion to 22,426 representative payees who "did not have an SSN, and SSA had not followed its policy to retain the paper application."

“Furthermore, unless it takes corrective action, we estimate SSA will pay about $182.5 million in benefits, annually, to representative payees who do not have an SSN or paper application supporting their selection,” the inspector general said.

The inspector general also found the agency paid $853.1 million in benefits since 2004 to individuals who had been terminated as representative payees by the agency.

Click for more from The Washington Free Beacon.A government watchdog group is calling for an investigation into whether a Democratic Federal Election Commission official violated federal ethics laws after demanding President Donald Trump provide evidence of voter fraud, which is outside of the FEC’s jurisdiction.

The Washington Free Beacon first reported that FEC Commissioner Ellen Weintraub potentially ran afoul of ethics rules after using her position to call for Trump to produce evidence of claims that he and former Sen. Kelly Ayotte lost in New Hampshire due to voter fraud.

Weintraub released an official statement using an FEC header on Feb. 10 asking Trump to substantiate his claims of voter fraud. Weintraub continued her campaign online and attempted to recruit celebrities in her efforts. Additionally, she appeared on television in her official capacity to discuss her efforts.

Cause of Action, a Washington, D.C.-based public interest law firm, is now asking FEC Inspector General Lynne A. McFarland to open an investigation into whether Weintraub violated ethics laws when she used government property and official time to call on President Trump to produce the evidence.

Click for more from The Washington Free Beacon.White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday that if President Donald Trump’s newly appointed national security adviser wanted to remove chief strategist Steve Bannon from the National Security Council’s principals committee, the president would “take that under serious consideration.”

“The president has made clear to him he’s got full authority to structure the national security team the way he wants,” Spicer said of Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, whom Trump appointed Monday as his new national security adviser. Spicer made the remarks in the daily White House press briefing.

When asked if Gen. McMaster’s control over his team would extend to control of the principals committee and the potential removal of the chief strategist, Spicer said that McMaster “would come to the president and make that recommendation, but the president would take that under high—you know, serious consideration.”

Spicer added that in meetings with people for the position of national security adviser over the weekend, “The president made it very clear with [Gen. McMaster] and the other candidates that they had 100% control and authority over the national security committee.”

McMaster hasn’t indicated any changes he would like to make regarding the National Security Council.

Spicer said that McMaster, currently a three-star lieutenant general, would remain on active duty while serving as national security adviser. As such, if he retains his three-star rank, his appointment would be subject to Senate confirmation, according to a statement from a Senate Armed Services Committee aide. If he moves down a notch to a two-star major general, he wouldn’t be subject to Senate confirmation, the aide said.

Trump last month took the unusual step of adding Bannon, a former media and financial executive who was an architect of the president’s campaign strategy, to the National Security Council’s principals committee while downgrading the status of the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The move—which meant Bannon would be invited to all council meetings—drew criticism from both Republicans and Democrats, who questioned whether Bannon’s addition would insert domestic politics into national-security decision-making.

Click for more from The Wall Street Journal.**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.**



On the roster: Democrats oblivious to lessons on immigration fight - DHS head orders hiring surge, end ‘catch-and-release’ - Revised refugee ban could come as soon as today - Trump denounces anti-Semitism.

DEMOCRATS OBLIVIOUS TO LESSONS ON IMMIGRATION FIGHT

Calling something a “social issue” is just another way of saying that the sides in the dispute are bound by matters of faith.



If you are closing military bases, setting marginal tax rates or devising sanctions for a hostile nation, you and your political adversary are likely to disagree about how or how much, but not on the very facts or objectives themselves.



When we talk about social issues, though, we get into the unanswerables.



When does life begin? Is human sexuality determined at birth? Are there inherent differences between racial groups?



These are the questions that no sane politician wants to try to answer because the issues supersede science and statistics and enter the realm of theology, philosophy and belief.



Sometimes, though, issues migrate from the realm of practical application and into that space. A great example is global warming, which by all rights ought to be about economics and ecology, but has evolved into the kind of fight that theologians would recognize, with absolute dogmas and brutal purges against heretics.



And now, we have immigration.



American history is flecked with fights about immigration. Certainty we would recognize much of the furor over how to deal with previous waves of mass migration to the United States: Scots-Irish in the 18th and early 19th centuries, Germans, Irish and Chinese in the 19th century and the Ellis Island arrivals from Southern and Eastern Europe a century ago.



Each wave brought conflict of varying degrees as the indigenous population feared economic disruption, cultural dilution and the introduction of un-American immorality.



Our current struggle is what to make of the wave of immigrants from Latin America that poured into the United States staring in the 1970s and surging until about 2010. After many years of trying to treat it as a philosophical question, American politics is resigning itself to the reality: immigration is a hard-nosed, practical concern to most voters.

The Republican Party foundered on the rocks of immigration reform at least twice before acknowledging this truth. The acknowledgment came in the form of President Trump and his successful 2016 campaign.



And Democrats are still struggling to define the subject in new terms.



Democratic leaders certainly see immigration as a social issue, but from the reverse perspective. In the minds of American liberals, immigration and the cultural diversity it produces are inherently good. If permissive immigration policies are moral, then restrictions on immigration must be immoral.



But when complex subjects such as these are reduced to Manichean morality tests, voters often shy away. And as Democrats have pursued both permissive immigration policies, and denounced enforcement measures and restrictions, they have seen voters flee from them.



It is easy to forget that something like one in five self-described Democrats in most polls support the idea of mass deportations of illegal immigrants. Or that surveys routinely show strong support among Democrats and independents for more robust border control and internal enforcement.



Much as the Republicans before them, Democratic leaders simply assume that all right thinking people must agree with them about the moral and practical necessities of immigration, but fail to invest much time or effort in explaining why.



There are a lot of reasons why working-class, white voters who were traditionally part of the Democratic base have abandoned the party in increasing numbers over the past generation. But surely the party’s stated opposition to a tougher stance on illegal immigration has got to be a part.



The same goes for the working-class and middle-class, black voters who, despite passionate support for former President Barack Obama, have seen Democrats embrace mass immigration even as conditions in predominantly black communities have deteriorated.



For the think-tank left and big-city, highly-educated elite of the party, immigration is a social issue. But for many of the voters they seek, it is a practical one that relates to job anxiety, public education and a perceived threat to public safety.



Scholars on both sides of the issue can make convincing arguments about whether large-scale immigration has been or would be helpful to the nation’s economy and the health of our society. Whatever your position, there is a scholarly paper that will back you up.



As a matter of political practice, though, Democrats are leaving themselves wide open on this subject by not making a cogent case for what they believe.



One of the ways in which Trump continues to threaten the Democratic coalition is his focus on enforcement. But rather than acknowledging problems with a system that continues to allow something like 10 percent of the nation’s population to reside here illegally, Democrats denounce Trump’s new measures as heartless.



In the basket of emotions, compassion tends to be a luxury item for human beings. Insecure or anxious people may wish to be compassionate, but readily excuse their own narrowed self-interest in straiten circumstances.



Telling an underemployed resident of Wisconsin that America should be a welcoming place to people from around the world is a tough sell – especially when Trump offers the hope of economic rescue by means of clamping down on new arrivals and booting out many of those already here.



An appeal to conscience is a powerful thing, but an appeal to personal necessity tends to win out in the quiet of the heart… and in the voting booth.

Unless and until Democrats are willing to trade the comforting but politically damaging view of immigration as a moral and social issue and start making the case for the practical application of their ideas, they will be sitting ducks for Trump and his promises of prosperity and security.


DHS HEAD ORDERS HIRING SURGE, END ‘CATCH-AND-RELEASE’

Fox News: “Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly moved Tuesday to implement a host of immigration enforcement changes ordered by President Trump, directing agency heads to hire thousands more officers, end so-called ‘catch-and-release’ policies and begin work on the president’s promised U.S.-Mexico border wall. ‘It is in the national interest of the United States to prevent criminals and criminal organizations from destabilizing border security,’ Kelly wrote in one of two memos released Tuesday by the department. The memos follow up on Trump’s related executive actions from January and, at their heart, aim to toughen enforcement by expanding the categories of illegal immigrants targeted for deportation. The changes would spare so-called ‘dreamers.’ On a conference call with reporters, a DHS official stressed that the directives would not affect Obama-era protections for illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children and others given a reprieve in 2014.”



Revised refugee ban could come as soon as today - USA Today: “President Trump plans to issue a revised version of his temporary travel ban targeting majority-Muslim countries as early as Tuesday, with a likely focus on fewer people so it will survive legal challenges. The new order, according to a draft obtained by the Associated Press, would focus on the same seven countries – Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen – but would only bar entry to those without a visa and who have never entered the United States before. Unlike the original order, people from those countries who already have permanent U.S. residency (green cards) or visas would not face any restrictions.”

[Watch Fox: Martha MacCallum hosts a town hall in Jacksonville, Fla. with voters, lawmakers and Senior White House Policy Advisor Stephen Miller to talk immigration at 7 p.m. ET]



TRUMP DENOUNCED ANTI-SEMITISM AT AFRICAN AMERICAN MUSEUM

USA Today: “Touring a new museum devoted to African-American history, President Trump said Tuesday he will do what he can to improve race relations and also denounced a series of recent threats and vandalism aimed at Jews. ‘The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful, and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,’ Trump said after touring the National Museum of African American History and Culture. In an earlier interview on MSNBC, Trump said that ‘Anti-Semitism is horrible, and it's going stop and it has to stop,.’ Trump had been criticized for passing up previous chances to denounce a spate of recent anti-Semitic incidents that range from desecration of a Jewish cemetery to Jewish community centers.”

MEET TRUMP’S NEW NSA PICK

AP: “President Donald Trump has chosen as his national security adviser a soldier-scholar who fought in both Iraq wars and wrote an influential book that called out the U.S. government for ‘lies’ that led to the Vietnam War. Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster would remain on active military duty while leading the National Security Council, White House officials said Monday. He joined two retired generals - Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly - already in Trump’s inner circle, adding to the impression that the president prefers military men in top roles.”


‘ANY UNFAMILIAR CATTLE’

WCVB: “SUFFIELD, Conn. — Police in a Connecticut town are reminding people to not open their doors to ‘any unfamiliar cattle’ after a pair of cows escaped from their pen and were found near the front door of a home a couple of houses away. Sgt. Geoffrey Miner tells WGGB/WSHM a driver reported seeing the cows walking on the side of a road and in yards in Suffield on Sunday morning. Officers managed to take a photo of the cows before herding them back to their pen. Police posted the photo on Facebook, saying two ‘suspicious males’ were going door-to-door ‘trying to sell dairy products.’ They were ‘apprehended after a short foot pursuit.’ Police say the cows were able to escape due to a faulty electrical wire fence.”

"Our country will never have had a military like the military we're about to build and rebuild,” Trump said at last week’s press conference. “It won't be depleted for long."

The president made rebuilding the military a centerpiece of his campaign, and sent a fresh signal of his intentions with his choice for national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster – who for months has sounded the alarm about the declining state of the U.S. Army.

"We are outranged and outgunned by many potential adversaries ... [and] our army in the future risks being too small to secure the nation," McMaster told a Senate Armed Services subcommittee last April. Trump’s decision to tap McMaster brings a vocal advocate for boosting the Armed Forces into his inner circle.

Seeing an opening to address longstanding readiness concerns, the service branches all have proposed plans to expand. For some, they seek a gradual increase. For others, the proposed ramp-up would be steep.

The Air Force wants to expand its forces by 30,000 airmen over the next five-to-six years.

The Army wants to expand by roughly that amount by October, according to a defense official who shared the plan with Fox News but was not authorized to do so.

At the time of McMaster’s testimony last year, the Army was at its smallest level since before World War II. Earlier this month, the U.S. Army’s second highest-ranking officer said just 5 percent of his force could “fight tonight.” Gen. Daniel Allyn, vice chief of staff of the Army, said while a third of his 58 brigade combat teams could be ready soon, only three could deploy immediately in the event of sudden conflict.

As part of a proposed expansion, the Navy also wants 82 more ships and submarines, a 30 percent increase in the size of the fleet.

Last month, Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Robert Neller said he wants to increase his force by 3,000 Marines.

But increasing the ranks is only part of the plan.

Currently, half of the U.S. Navy F-18 Hornets can't fly, and up to 75 percent of Marine Corps jets are grounded.

Roughly half of Air Force B-1 bombers are grounded awaiting spare parts. For many U.S. military jets flown well past their expected life, the shortage of spare parts comes from manufacturers that long stopped making them, forcing the services to scramble.

Fox News has documented the dire problems facing U.S. military aviation since April, reporting that some Marine Corps and Air Force mechanics have been forced to go to aircraft museums and scrapyards to strip old aircraft for parts.

Earlier this month, the head of U.S. Marine Corps aviation said if he doesn’t get more money soon, all of his aircraft will be grounded.

“If I don’t get more money, I’ll stop flying in July or August,” said Lt. Gen. Jon Davis, deputy commandant for aviation, according to the Marine Corps Times.

According to the Republican chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Trump's plans could face obstacles at the Pentagon. Late last week, Chairman Mac Thornberry, R-Texas, tweeted: “@RealDonaldTrump promise is facing Obama holdovers @DOD who have been fighting against rebuilding & are still undermining agenda.”

Many took Thornberry’s comment as a shot across the bow directed at the deputy defense secretary, Robert Work, an Obama administration holdover who occupied the same position.

Acting Pentagon Press Secretary Capt. Jeff Davis said Secretary Jim Mattis has the “full trust and confidence” in Work.

“The budget submissions that DOD makes to the president will come from Secretary Mattis,” he said. “They will reflect his thinking, and his priorities, which are to rebuild combat readiness of America's military, while being faithful stewards of every taxpayer dollar we spend on defense.”

Lucas Tomlinson is the Pentagon and State Department producer for Fox News Channel. You can follow him on Twitter: @LucasFoxNewsThe Supreme Court expressed sympathy Tuesday for the family of a Mexican teenager fatally shot from across the U.S.-Mexico line by a Border Patrol agent, but struggled to reach consensus on whether foreign nationals – like the teen’s relatives – can sue in American courts.

The divisions were on display during oral arguments for what has become a closely watched case, amid an escalating political debate in Washington over border security. The arguments were held the same day the Department of Homeland Security released new directives on immigration enforcement, and after a lower federal court blocked a separate executive action from President Trump on immigration and refugee restrictions.

Apart from renewed interest in the court’s consideration of immigration disputes, the case heard Tuesday also could have implications for other U.S. government actions taken overseas -- including military drone strikes against suspected terrorists, and electronic surveillance over the Internet.

In the current dispute, 15-year-old Sergio Hernandez was just steps from the border on Mexican soil when he was killed in 2010 by Jesus Mesa Jr., an agent standing on the American side in El Paso, Texas.

The federal agent was not prosecuted, and the U.S. refused to extradite him to Mexico. The victim's family says a civil action is now their only recourse for justice.

The issues for the court are whether the officer enjoys immunity from such claims of excessive force, and whether the victim enjoyed limited constitutional protections, even though he was not a U.S. citizen.

During a spirited, 70-minute public session at the high court, the eight justices appeared divided over just what kind of violations by the U.S. government against foreigners merit legal action, and whether courts should even get involved.

"This is one of the most sensitive areas of foreign affairs where the political branches should discuss with Mexico what the solution ought to be," said Justice Anthony Kennedy. "This an urgent matter of separation of powers for us to respect the duty that the principle rule the executive and the legislative have with respect to foreign affairs."

But Justice Sonia Sotomayor wondered, "Why should there not be a civil remedy to ensure that border police are complying with the Constitution? … Wouldn't shooting potshots at Mexican citizens be shocking to the conscience?"

Both sides in the shooting incident offer differing accounts of what happened in June 2010, when Hernandez and three of his friends were spotted hanging around a concrete culvert along the Rio Grande waterway separating the two countries.

Video shot on a phone by a civilian shows the agent shooting Hernandez as the unarmed boy peeked out from behind a railroad trestle, 60 feet away.

Mesa's lawyers and supporters say unreleased surveillance video shows the agent was under threat from rocks being thrown at him, and that he acted appropriately.

While Mesa was never prosecuted, other border agents have been in separate incidents, including Lonnie Swartz for second-degree murder in the 2012 death of a 16-year-old Mexican boy. The agent has pleaded not guilty and his trial is pending.

An outside report commissioned by U.S. Customs and Border Protection faulted the agency for not fully investigating 67 shootings incidents from 2010-2012.

Immigration rights activists in particular have criticized incidents along the often-unmarked border, which Justice Elena Kagan called a "no-man's land"-- where determining what happened and where can prove challenging.

Both sides agree had Hernandez been on U.S. soil at the time of the shooting -- even illegally -- the agent could be sued in civil court.

But Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the real issue here concerns the actions of the agent himself.

"It's the United States law operating on the United States official who's acting inside the United States," she said. "This case has, as far as the conduct is concerned, United States written all over it. There's nothing about Mexico. The Border Patrol guard doesn't take his orders from Mexico."

But Chief Justice John Roberts repeatedly urged lawyers for Hernandez's family to offer a standard on just when such claims can be pressed, offering a contemporary hypothetical.

"How do you analyze the case of a drone strike in Iraq where the plane is piloted from Nevada?" he asked.

Given the competing arguments at Tuesday's public sessions, the court may find it difficult to articulate a clear standard even for similar cases occurring within shooting distance of the border. A 4-4 tie would not create any precedent, but would stop the Hernandez lawsuit from proceeding.

The family's lawyer said after the arguments that the Trump administration's controversial immigration policies make it imperative the courts step in.

"It intensifies the danger if there is no Constitution when the border agents interact with the folks they are trying to deport," said Robert Hilliard. "There is going to be more of a need to have the executive's conduct reviewed by the judiciary. Right now there is no checks on the executive. There's no separation of powers."

But the attorney for the border agent told Fox News that, if his side loses, public safety could be compromised if agents feared being subjected to lawsuits. "I think it would create a chilling effect for all those protecting our borders and our national security in times of critical incidents on when to act and when to protect themselves in times of peril," Randolph Ortega said.

The case is Hernandez v. Mesa (15-118). A ruling is expected by June.

Trump’s nominee to fill the vacancy on the court, Neil Gorsuch, is still awaiting his confirmation hearing in the Senate.The new head of the EPA set a decidedly more pro-business tone for the agency Tuesday during his first remarks to rank-and-file employees, promoting a balance between protecting the environment and the economy -- and warning officials to "avoid" regulatory "abuses."

“We as an agency and we as a nation can be both pro-energy and jobs and we can be pro-environment, and we don’t have to choose between the two,” newly confirmed Administrator Scott Pruitt told a group of Environmental Protection Agency employees.

Pruitt’s address follows a heated confirmation process where more than 800 former and current staff members actively campaigned against him. Pruitt, as Oklahoma's attorney general, fought the EPA in court and accused the agency of routinely over-regulating businesses. He vowed that as the agency's new leader, he would work to scale back its authority.

“Regulations ought to make things regular. Regulators exist to give certainty to those that they regulate. Those that we regulate ought to know what’s expected of them, so that they can plan and allocate resources to comply,” he told the crowd.

Tensions with staff, however, could remain high as Pruitt takes over.

In addition to the letter signed by hundreds of employees asking senators to pull their support of Pruitt, more than two-dozen current EPA staff joined a protest set up by the Sierra Club in Chicago against him. The strong internal opposition could mean a standoff down the line between career EPA employees and the man leading them.

Pruitt was narrowly confirmed to head up the agency last week after a lengthy floor debate in the Senate. Democrats blasted him for vowing to roll back Obama-era environmental regulations as well as his past statements challenging the science behind climate change. Republicans countered that Pruitt was the right man to scale back the size and reach of the EPA.

In an exclusive interview with Fox News, Pruitt pushed back on claims that the Trump administration’s EPA agenda is anti-environment. Instead, he noted the agency has strayed from its mission to administer environmental law passed by Congress into an unaccountable federal bureaucracy.

“Often times in rule making regulators have just changed rules midstream,” Pruitt told Fox. “Small businesses and otherwise, they will tell you the greatest impediment they had is regulatory uncertainty.”

Slapping restraints on the EPA could come sooner rather than later.

On Tuesday, The Washington Post reported that President Trump could head to EPA headquarters this week to sign a pair of executive orders.

One order would instruct the Department of the Interior to lift a ban on new coal mining leases on federal land and instruct the EPA to rewrite a 2015 regulation that limits greenhouse-gas emissions from existing electric utilities.

The second order reportedly would instruct the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers to make significant changes to the Waters of the United States rule which gives the federal government authority over rivers, streams and wetlands. The regulation, issued under the 1972 Clean Water Act, applies to 60 percent of the water bodies in the United States.

As Oklahoma’s attorney general, Pruitt was party to lawsuits for both the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. In all, Pruitt sued the EPA 14 times before becoming its administrator.

Pruitt faced additional questions during the confirmation process that extended beyond his history fighting the agency.

On the eve of his confirmation vote, Pruitt was ordered by an Oklahoma judge to hand over thousands of emails between his office and fossil fuel companies like Koch Industries and the National Coal Council to the Center for Media and Democracy, which requested the collection of emails in 2014.

Pruitt and the Oklahoma attorney general’s office are accused of ignoring multiple open records requests. Oklahoma County District Judge Aletia Haynes Timmons said “there was an abject failure to provide prompt and reasonable access to documents requested.”

So far, only 411 of the more than 3,000 emails CMD requested have been handed over. The 411 were turned over last week. The open records request was made two years ago.

Despite being ordered to turn over the emails, Pruitt and his former office can withhold those they deem exempt under the state’s records law.

Fox News' Doug McKelway contributed to this report.John McCain is back in his customary role, the maverick adored by the media.

“Mr. McCain has emerged as an outspoken defender of longstanding Republican verities on foreign policy and as one of his party’s most biting critics of the new commander in chief,” says the New York Times.

A Washington Post piece is headlined “John McCain Just Systematically Dismantled Donald Trump’s Entire Worldview.”

And there is little doubt that the Arizona senator views himself as standing up for Republican principles against a president he opposed. But make no mistake, this is personal.

McCain walked it back a bit yesterday after having told “Meet the Press” that without a free and adversarial press, “I am afraid that we would lose so much of our individual liberties over time. That's how dictators get started."

The statement from his office said: "Let's be clear: Senator McCain was not comparing anyone to a dictator. He was stating a fact that throughout history, a free press has been essential to holding governments accountable to the people.”

True, McCain only implied that Trump might be headed down the road toward dictatorship.

McCain’s hawkish views on foreign policy, and staunch backing for the Iraq war, set him apart from Trump, who is critical of that war and believes the U.S. has been too quick to resort to military intervention around the world.

Their relationship got off to a bad start during the primaries, when Trump took a shot at McCain’s years in a North Vietnam prison camp: “I like people that weren’t captured.” The media went wild over Trump’s comment, made in reaction to McCain saying that his immigration stance was attracting “crazies.”

At a conference in Germany late last week, McCain said Europeans would be “alarmed by the hardening resentment we see towards immigrants and refugees and minority groups, especially Muslims.” He also noted a growing unwillingness “to separate truth from lies” and that “more and more of our fellow citizens seem to be flirting with authoritarianism.”

The president, for his part, hit back at McCain on Twitter, saying, “He’s been losing so long he doesn’t know how to win anymore.”

McCain skipped the Republican convention, avoided talking about Trump and withdrew even his nominal support after the “Access Hollywood” tape surfaced.

I first got to know McCain during the 2000 primaries, spending endless hours on his Straight Talk Express bus. Since he had no money, the senator would talk to reporters all day long and wound up winning New Hampshire before losing to George W. Bush.

McCain continued to get good press during the Bush administration because he was a maverick taking on his own party. And he got sympathetic coverage during the 2008 primaries—that is, after the pundits wrote him off when his campaign nearly collapsed the previous year.

But when McCain was taking on Barack Obama, the coverage turned far more negative, since he wasn't viewed as a maverick against the country’s first potential black president. McCain limited press access, just like a conventional candidate. And his opposition to Obama’s foreign policy didn’t yield warm reviews from a press corps he had once jokingly called his “base.”

Could the recent surge of media interest in McCain have something to do with the journalistic opposition to Trump? Well, he’s on the cover of New York magazine, the same publication that in its preelection issue branded Trump a “LOSER.”

I don’t see a rapprochement any time soon. Trump has made clear he won’t be dissuaded by critics in his own party. McCain is 80, newly reelected and has nothing to lose. And their clashes could help shape the direction of the next four years.

Howard Kurtz is a Fox News analyst and the host of "MediaBuzz" (Sundays 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. ET). He is the author of five books and is based in Washington. Follow him at @HowardKurtz. Click here for more information on Howard Kurtz.President Trump spoke out Tuesday against the wave of anti-Semitic threats against Jewish community centers, calling them “horrible” reminders of the bigotry that still exists in the country.

“The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,” Trump said after touring the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C.

Trump has been under increasing pressure to speak out again anti-Semitism amid several recent episodes, including bomb threats made Monday against 11 Jewish community centers. Similar threats have been made to Jewish schools in recent weeks, and last Thursday vandals in suburban St. Louis knocked over dozens of headstones in a Jewish cemetery.

“America is a nation built on the principle of religious tolerance. We must protect our house of worship & religious centers. #JCC,” Trump’s daughter, Ivanka Trump, tweeted Monday.

She converted to Judaism before marrying husband Jared Kushner, who is Orthodox.

On Tuesday, Hillary Clinton, Trump’s Democratic rival in the 2016 White House race, called on Trump and others to “speak out” on attacks.

“JCC threats, cemetery desecration & online attacks are so troubling & they need to be stopped. Everyone must speak out, starting w/ @POTUS,” Clinton tweeted about an hour before Trump’s remarks.

JCC threats, cemetery desecration & online attacks are so troubling & they need to be stopped. Everyone must speak out, starting w/ @POTUS. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 21, 2017

Trump also said Tuesday that his visit to the Smithsonian Museum on the National Mall was a “reminder why we have to fight bigotry and intolerance in all forms.”

The statement comes after the White House issued a more general condemnation of "hate-motivated violence." Trump's White House faced criticism last month after issuing an International Holocaust Remembrance Day statement that did not specifically mention Jews.

At last week's press conference, Trump also cut off a reporter who asked the president about anti-Semitism in America.Civil rights leaders and groups that have fought for more lenient immigration policies say the Trump administration’s new enforcement plans will devastate families and communities and hurt economies across the United States.

On the other hand, those who favor stricter enforcement are lauding President Donald Trump for keeping his campaign promise to crack down on illegal immigration. And some added that they wanted him to go even further in the new guides on border security and interior actions.

Proponents of policies that would give undocumented immigrants a path to legalization of their status said they are not surprised, but disturbed nonetheless, by the sweeping changes expanding the categories of people who will be targeted for deportation and expedited enforcement, among other things. They vowed to fight the changes in court.

“These memos confirm that the Trump administration is willing to trample on due process, human decency, the well-being of our communities and even protections for vulnerable children,” said Omar Jadwat, director of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants’ Rights Project, “in pursuit of a hyper-aggressive mass deportation policy. However, President Trump does not have the last word here — the courts and the public will not allow this un-American dream to become reality.”

Advocates are planning rallies and visits to the offices of members of Congress in coming weeks to protest the new immigration orders.

Wendy Feliz, the communications director for the American Immigration Council, said the tougher policies will sow more fear in ethnic communities, already on edge because of Trump’s hardline rhetoric about undocumented people. Feliz said his tone and policies alienate even immigrants who are here legally, making them feel unwelcome.

“It’s punitive, it’s impractical, it’s mean-spirited, it’s inhumane,” Feliz told Fox News. “It’s indiscriminate. It does not distinguish between the jaywalker and the bank robber. It’s going to be disruptive, it’s going to rip parents away from their children and strike fear in many families – many families are mixed-status, undocumented immigrants are married to legal permanent residents and to U.S. citizens.”

Rep. Steve King, an Iowa Republican who has been one of Congress’ most vocal proponents for tough immigration measures, lauded Trump for keeping his promise to address border security and take aim at people who are here illegally.

It's indiscriminate. It does not distinguish between the jaywalker and the bank robber. It's going to be disruptive, it's going to rip parents away from their children, and strike fear in many families. - Wendy Feliz, American Immigration Council

“This says that all immigration law breakers are now subject to enforcement of the law,” King told Fox News. “We’ve had decreasing enforcement of immigration law for more than 30 years, since Reagan’s amnesty.”

King said he was surprised and disappointed to see that Trump left intact President Barack Obama’s 2012 executive order waiving deportation for immigrants brought to the United States as minors.

King is among a faction of immigration hardliners that wants that protection lifted. Advocates of the order say young undocumented immigrants should be given a break, because they did not have a say in their parents’ decision to come illegally. Some Republicans also want them to be treated with leniency.

But King said that Trump, who criticized the order as unconstitutional, should not make an exception for them.

“We’ll never be able to pick this ball up again and run with it,” he said, “If we don’t enforce the rule of law now, there’s no foreseeable way to restore it.”

In Colorado, Larimer County Sheriff Justin Smith said Trump’s new policies would allow “fair and reasonable enforcement of our immigration laws, not just sparing enforcement.”

“Until a few years ago, we had consistent enforcement,” Smith told Fox News. “We knew if we came across immigration law violators, we’d contact [immigration authorities]. But over the last several years, it was almost given up on. It had to do with the directives” that restricted enforcement priorities.

Expand / Contract A Border Patrol agent uses a headset and computer to conduct a long-distance interview by video with a person arrested crossing the border in Texas. (AP)

Smith said some police departments that signed up for federal programs that authorized them to enforce immigration laws stopped participating because “they got to be too burdensome.”

David Aguilar, who was acting commissioner of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection under the George W. Bush administration, said the guidelines tighten parts of immigration enforcement policies that were not enforced consistently or in a focused fashion.

Aguilar expressed approval of the latitude given to young undocumented immigrants, many of whom have no memory of their parents’ homeland.

“This gave direction about a group that pulls at the heartstrings of many Americans,” Aguilar told Fox news. “It keeps [Obama’s 2012 directive] in place.”

“The reality is we have black and white laws,” Aguilar said. “This guidance provides color.”

Elizabeth Llorente is Senior Reporter for FoxNews.com, and can be reached at Elizabeth.Llorente@Foxnews.com. Follow her on https://twitter.com/Liz_LlorenteThe Supreme Court on Tuesday heard oral arguments in the first case to come before the justices since President Trump took office and one that could prove to be a bellwether for how the nation’s highest court will rule under the new administration.

The case – Hernandez v. Mesa – centers on the 2010 cross-border shooting of a Mexican teenager by a U.S. Border Patrol agent and the legal battle by the teen’s parents to sue the border agent in an American court for allegedly violating their son's right.

Besides what was argued in the courtroom on Tuesday, legal scholars say that this case could also be precedent-setting and a preview of how the Supreme Court will approach politically-charged issues like Trump’s ban on foreign travelers from seven Muslim-majority nations and his other executive orders on immigration.

“This case may prove to be very significant for the administration’s immigration policies,” Jonathan Turley, a professor of public interest law at The George Washington University Law School, told Fox News.“

On a June evening in 2010, Border Patrol Agent Jesus Mesa Jr. shot and killed 15-year-old Sergio Adrian Hernández Guereca, who was playing with friends in a cement culvert that separates El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Juárez, Mexico.

Hernández’s family argues that their son and his friends were simply playing a game in which they ran down the culvert from the Mexican side and up the American side to touch an 18-foot fence. Mesa and the Justice Department, however, argue that the agent was trying to stop "smugglers attempting an illegal border crossing" and fired his gun after he came under a barrage of rocks.

What actually happened during the incident, however, is not what the Supreme Court will be looking at as U.S. officials chose not to prosecute Mesa, and the Obama administration refused a request to extradite him so he could face criminal charges in Mexico.

Instead the justices must decide whether to uphold the ruling of two lower federal courts that Hernández was killed by Mesa without any possible legal recourse for his parents or that the border agent can be sued for damages for violating the boy's constitutional rights.

During a spirited 70-minute public session at the high court Tuesday, the eight justices appeared divided over just what kind of violations committed by the U.S. government against foreigners deserve legal action and whether courts should even get involved.

"This is one of the most sensitive areas of foreign affairs where the political branches should discuss with Mexico what the solution ought to be," Justice Anthony Kennedy said. "This an urgent matter of separation of powers for us to respect the duty that the principle rule the executive and the legislative have with respect to foreign affairs."

Whether or not constitutional protections under the Fourth Amendment apply to the Mexican teen is a variation on one of the central issues in the legal battle over Trump’s travel ban. A Feb. 9 ruling by a federal appeals court in California held that the ban violates the constitutional rights of people who aren’t in the country but have a connection to the U.S., such as a visa or a relationship with a U.S. resident.

A key precedent in both cases was set in 2008 when the Supreme Court held that inmates at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have constitutional rights and can seek release in a federal court. Justice Kennedy wrote the 5-4 majority opinion in the case of Boumediene v. Bush that the global reach of the U.S. Constitution was governed by functional considerations and not formal questions about sovereign borders.

Legal experts say that Hernandez v. Mesa could clear up a number of issues left vague under the 2008 ruling and, in turn, give more clarity to how the Supreme Court will handle Trump’s travel ban.

“The Kennedy decision in 2008 left a lot of questions,” Turley said. “The question now is will the court expand on the decision and where will it draw the line?”

Besides setting up a legal precedent that could foreshadow how the court will handle the president’s more controversial orders, the case will also be the first indication of how the justices plan to proceed during the Trump administration.

While Trump has been openly critical of federal courts – especially following the appeals court ruling in February – most observers say that the Supreme Court will use Hernandez v. Mesa to show continuity, rather than change, from one administration to the next and to assert its independence from the other branches of government.

“The Supreme Court could begin to view itself as a counterweight to the political situation,” Stephen Griffin, a professor of constitutional law at Tulane University, told Fox News. “They’ll want to show that they aren’t a product of politics.”

Expand / Contract Supreme Court Justice nominee, Neil Gorsuch meets with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Feb. 1, 2017. (The Associated Press)

Adding to the intrigue of the case is the empty seat left following the death Justice Antonin Scalia and Trump’s decision to nominate federal appellate judge Neil Gorsuch to fill the position and how he would rule in cases related to immigration.

“The Gorsuch hearings are a moment for everyone to slow down and decide what the role of the court is,” Griffin said. “Trump’s immigration ban has raised new issues that didn’t exist when Scalia was alive.”

A ruling in Hernandez v. Mesa is expected by June. Gorsuch is not participating in this petition.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer held his daily press briefing Tuesday, and covered the new immigration crackdown by the administration and rising anti-Semitism in the United States.



Follow FoxNews.com's live blog for details as it played out.President Trump on Monday tapped Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, a warrior-scholar deemed an expert in counter insurgency, to be the director of the White House's National Security Council.

The 54-year-old McMaster replaces retired Army Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as the president’s national security adviser. Flynn was forced to resign after lying about talking to Russia, before he officially took the NSA post, about recently imposed sanctions.

“He is a man of tremendous talent and experience,” Trump said in announcing McMaster’s appointment. “He’s highly respected in the military, and we're lucky to have him.”

Trump also announced that Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg will remain as the NSC’s chief of staff.

“I’m proud to continue my service to the nation,” said McMaster, sitting next to Trump inside the president’s Florida resort home Mar-a-Lago.

Trump on Sunday interviewed several NSC candidates, in an attempt to solidify the intelligence team, days after calling for Flynn’s resignation.

McMaster is a Philadelphia native and West Point graduate who fought in the Persian Gulf War and served in Iraq and Afghanistan.

“This is a great team,” Trump said. “The country is honored to have two people like this, and after having met so many people in the military, we're lucky to have all of them.”

Said Kellogg: "I'm honored and privileged to serve alongside Gen. McMaster. He's a great statesman."

Trump also thanked the others he interviewed this past weekend including former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton.

The president said Bolton has “a good number of ideas that I agree with very much" and that he will work for him in a “different capacity.”

McMaster is currently director of the Army Capabilities Integration Center. He joined the Army in 1984 and distinguished himself seven years later during the Gulf War in what would become known as the Battle of 73 Easting.

As captain of the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment's Eagle Troop, McMaster led a force of just nine tanks that took out more than 80 Iraqi Republican Guard tanks and armored vehicles.

He is the author of the 1997 book, "Dereliction of Duty," which criticized the U.S. government's handling of the Vietnam War.

In his latest role, McMaster was tasked with gauging the U.S, military capability against future threats. When he addressed lawmakers in April of last year, he warned that years of military cuts have left the U.S. vulnerable.

“We are outranged and outgunned by many potential adversaries,” McMaster said. “[And] our army in the future risks being too small to secure the nation.”NATO is ready to put the squeeze on its European member nations to pay their “fair burden” to preserve peace around the world, a top official said Monday.

“We expect all allies to make good on a promise made in 2014 and pay their fair burden,” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said at a summit in Brussels attended by Vice President Pence.

President Trump argued during his presidential campaign that most of the 26 countries the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are not shouldering their fair share in the alliance, while the United States pays about 70 percent of the cost.

The countries agreed in 2014 to spend 2 percent of their gross national product on defense, but only the United States, Estonia, Greece, Poland and United Kingdom have fulfilled that commitment, according to reports.

“This must come to an end,” Pence said in a joint press conference with Stoltenberg. “The president of the United States and the American people expect our European allies to keep their word and do more.”

Though Trump suggested during his campaign that NATO was outdated and hinted that the United States no longer needs to be part of such a one-sided deal, Pence on Monday reassured the world of the U.S. commitment.

“The world needs NATO’s leadership more than ever,” Pence said. “The U.S. has a firm commitment to the NATO partnership.”

Pence praised Stoltenberg for making the fair burden issue a priority. He said that the U.S. will “continue to hold Russia accountable” for its actions, amid concerns that Trump’s efforts to improve diplomatic relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin will allow Russia to continue aggressions like those in eastern Ukraine.

Stoltenberg said there have been significant increases in NATO contributions this year.

“The good news is we are going in the right direction,” said Stoltenberg, who nevertheless said that Germany and some other European allies “have a long way to go.”UK Members of Parliament clashed Monday in a heated debate over President Trump’s state visit as left-wing MPs called for the invitation to be withdrawn -- while some Conservative Party MPs accused their opponents of hypocrisy and insulting the American people.

Prime Minister Theresa May extended a state visit invitation to Trump when she visited the White House in January – a move that angered some segments of the UK population and left-leaning lawmakers, who have pointed to Trump’s language about women and his hardline stance on refugees and immigrants as reasons to oppose such a visit.

The debate in Parliament’s Westminster Hall was triggered after an online parliamentary petition seeking to prevent Trump from making a state visit to the U.K. picked up 1.8 million signatures. A counter-petition picked up over 300,000 signatures. The debate coincided with anti-Trump demonstrations in major UK cities.

While a visit to the U.K. was always likely, a state visit differs from an official visit as it is hosted by Queen Elizabeth II, and therefore is filled with pomp and ceremony, often involving a carriage ride with the Queen, a state banquet and an address to both Houses of Parliament.

Only two presidents – George W. Bush and Barack Obama – have been afforded state visits during Elizabeth’s reign. The petition claims that Trump’s “misogyny and vulgarity” would mean the visit would embarrass the monarch.

During the debate, left-wing MPs from the Labour Party, Green Party and Scottish National Party tore into the Republican president, accusing him of racism, sexism and xenophobia, and blasted May for extending the invitation in the first place.

“It is difficult to know whether to be appalled at the morality of this invitation or just astonished at the stupidity of the invitation,” said SNP MP Alex Salmond, who called May’s outreach “stomach-churning.”

UK SPEAKER BERCOW MOCKED, CALLED A HYPOCRITE OVER TRUMP SNUB

Green Party MP Caroline Lucas added that Trump had “shown such effrontery to basic climate science” in his views on climate change.

“It’s extraordinary that Trump, from the cavernous depths of his scientific ignorance, is prepared to challenge the conclusions of 97 percent of the world’s experts on this matter,” agreed Labour Party MP Paul Flynn, who later described Trump as a “petulant child” for his behavior.

However, Conservative Party MPs were united in the fact that the visit should go ahead, despite some of their own personal misgivings about some of the things he has said or done.

Nigel Evans, in a passionate speech, compared Trump’s election to the British vote to leave the European Union, and argued that the American voter should be respected.

“Just like we had the forgotten people in the United Kingdom, there are the forgotten people of the United States of America. They’re the ones who packed that stadium on Saturday to cheer Donald Trump after his month in the presidency because actually they like what he says,” he said.

“There are 61 million people who voted for Donald Trump and when we stand up in this country and then condemn him for being racist – and I’ve seen no evidence of that – or they attack him an unseemly way, we’re actually attacking the American people,” he said.

Other Tories accused their opposition colleagues of hypocrisy, considering that leaders with sketchy human rights records have been afforded state visits. When Flynn mentioned Trump’s infamous 2005 “grab them by the p***y” remark, Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg took him to task.

“I am grateful to the honorable gentleman for giving way and for his response to Mr. Trump’s perhaps ill-considered phraseology, but what complaint did the honorable gentleman make when [Japanese] Emperor Hirohito came here, who was responsible for the Rape of Nanking?” he asked.

“[Chinese President] Xi Jinping was here last year, where were the demonstrations then? How many votes did Xi Jinping get? We had a state visit from a Chinese leader 10 years after Tiananmen square,” added Evans. “It’s double standards.”

James Cartlidge, meanwhile, warned that rescinding the invitation would make Britain “a laughing stock” and would only benefit Russia.

“There will be smiles all around in the Kremlin if we follow this petition because what they want in the Kremlin above all else is to divide the West,” he warned.

There was no vote at the end of the debate, and ultimately it is up to the British Government whether to withdraw the invitation, or downgrade the visit. It seems highly unlikely that, now extended, the government would retract the invitation.

The government had responded to the petition saying “HM Government believes the President of the United States should be extended the full courtesy of a state visit. We look forward to welcoming President Trump once dates and arrangements are finalized,” the statement said.

House of Commons Speaker John Bercow caused controversy earlier this month when he broke with a tradition of neutrality by saying that he was opposed to Trump addressing both Houses of Parliament during his visit. The comments sparked a backlash, as well as a motion of no-confidence tabled against him.

Adam Shaw is a Politics Reporter and occasional Opinion writer for FoxNews.com. He can be reached here or on Twitter: @AdamShawNY.Organizers of the Conservative Political Action Conference have disinvited professional provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos after a video interview emerged of him appearing to condone pedophilia emerged.

“Due to the revelation of an offensive video in the past 24 hours condoning pedophilia, the American Conservative Union has decided to rescind the invitation of Milo Yiannopoulos to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference,” ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp said in a statement Monday.

Yiannopoulos, an editor at Breitbart News, said in a Facebook post on Sunday that selective editing resulted in his words being taken out of context and that he does not support pedophilia, according to Mediate.

Well-known on the political fringes, the 32-year old writer has gained more prominence with the ascension of Donald Trump and former Breitbart News executive Steve Bannon into the White House.

It was Yiannopoulos' appearance at the University of California – Berkeley and the ensuing protests that resulted in his cancellation that drew national attention and a presidential tweet.

“If U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view - NO FEDERAL FUNDS?” Trump tweeted after Yiannopoulos' speech was cancelled after violent protests broke out on the campus.

The reaction was one of the reasons for this appearance at CPAC.

“An epidemic of speech suppression has taken over college campuses. Milo has exposed their liberal thuggery and we think free speech includes hearing Milo’s important perspective,” Schlapp told The Hollywood Reporter.

Shortly after the Saturday announcement, some conservatives began voicing opposition to his selection – even before the Reagan Battalion released video clips on Twitter.

The National Review’s Jonah Goldberg said Yiannopolous’ invite represented the “mainstreaming a mainstreamer of alt-right, anti-Semitism and other un-conservative views.”An Arizona gubernatorial candidate is going to extreme lengths to back up his calls for honesty and openness in politics, by spilling the details of his colorful personal history on his campaign page – a past which includes group sex, sexting and periods of homelessness.

Noah ‘Noe’ Dyer, running a longshot campaign to grab the Democratic nomination and unseat sitting Republican Gov. Doug Ducey, is positioning himself as a pragmatic moderate who has only recently switched his affiliation to the Democrats.

A former teacher and marketing entrepreneur, Dyer says he believes in rapidly paying down state debt, equal education opportunities for Arizona’s children, he supports gun rights and calls for wide-ranging electoral reform.

However, he raised eyebrows last week when, in announcing his candidacy, he spilled details of his private life on his campaign website. In doing so, he says he believes “cleverly disclosed scandals that come out of the woodwork in the midst of campaigns mainly serve to divert and distract away from meaningful dialogue.” Instead, Dyer says he wants to have a “real conversation.”

Under the heading of “Scandals and controversy,” Dyer laid out everything from his student loan debt, his divorce, a period of homelessness, his use of credit card cash advances to pay tens of thousands of dollars in child support, and a colorful sexual history.

“Noah has had both deep and casual sexual experiences with all kinds of women. He is an advocate of open relationships,” his campaign website says. “He’s had group sex and sex with married women. He has sent and received intimate texts and pictures, and occasionally recorded video during sex. Noah has always been forthright with his partners.”

After noting that all his relationships have been legal and consensual, he adds that he is “unapologetic about his sexual choices, and wishes others the same safety and confidence as they express themselves.”

He has also released an extensive list of the books he has read, which, along with weighty tomes by writers such as Thomas Piketty, Stephen Hawking, and Francis Fukuyama, also includes titles such as “The Ethical Slut: A Practical Guide to Polyamory, Open Relationships and Other Adventures” and the kinky bestseller “50 Shades of Grey.”

Dyer told Fox News that America’s political dialogue is broken, and that he hopes his openness is an example of the honesty the public is looking for from their politicians.

“I think people want honesty from their politicians, and I’m willing to give it to them,” he said. “I don’t think most things are relevant to my platform and my ability, but to the degree people think they are relevant, that is a choice for them to make, not for me to make it for them.”

He said that while he was not particularly nervous in disclosing his personal life to the public, he admitted that everyone on his campaign team was dead against it.

“Everybody on my campaign, not a single person agreed with it,” he said. “But I was personally passionate about it and I’m pleased about it.”

Dyer told Fox News that he has received a mixed reaction to his rollout, although he says the reaction has been more positive than negative, and that he hopes by moving past his personal life he can move on to an issues-based campaign which can appeal to both Democrats and Republicans.

“Our political dialogue is broken. People, for the most part, aren’t crazy blue or crazy red. Most people want to judge politicians and the issues on the merits, but our dialogue is so crazy, everyone’s a villain and everyone who disagrees with you is stupid.”

Dyer faces a tough fight. The Arizona Republic reports that Dyer has no name recognition and no significant support from within the state Democratic Party. Even if he were to pick up the Democratic nomination, Arizona is typically considered a solid red state, and current Gov. Ducey would appear to be a safe bet. But Dyer notes that Trump’s ascension to the White House has energized grassroots progressives, who may be able to spark an upset in 2018.

“Arizonans are not anti-immigrant and they’re not anti-LGBTQ, but our people don’t turn out. Things Trump has said have activated the Democratic base, so you could get a historic turnout, which would bode well.”

Adam Shaw is a Politics Reporter and occasional Opinion writer for FoxNews.com. He can be reached here or on Twitter: @AdamShawNY.**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.**

WHAT KIND OF PRESIDENT WILL TRUMP BE?

We certainly know what kind of man Donald Trump is by now, but one month into his administration, we still don’t know what kind of president he will be.

That’s partly because he hasn’t figured out the basics of administration just yet and so his approach to governance is still unclear amid the clang and clatter of his buildout.

Clang and clatter can themselves be definitional for a president, but it's way too soon to say whether or not Trump can figure out the mechanics of the office. The main reason, though, that we can't say what kind of president Trump will be is because we have no idea what history has in store for him.

Among his 44 predecessors are supremely qualified, capable men who found themselves ruined by unforeseen events as well as lucky dopes who happened to walk into office at just the right moment.

But generally speaking, we can sort our presidents into four broad categories: Agents of change, captives, stewards and figureheads.

We can't categorize George Washington, because he defined the job. Our first president was mostly a steward, seeking to define the presidency in terms of its restraint and remove from the hurly-burly of politics – most of all when he, the American Cincinnatus, relinquished power after two terms. But Washington most certainly was willing to set controversial precedents. You would have only needed to ask the whiskey rebels dangling from the end of a hangman's rope.

And neither can we sort poor William Henry Harrison, who should have dressed for the weather.

Also, some presidents switched categories over the course of their term or terms. Woodrow Wilson, notably, was by turns a captive, a change agent and a figurehead. Richard Nixon also knew about changing lanes in an evolving presidency. And to be fair, each presidency includes some elements from each category.

But we're talking about the overall verdict of history, even at the risk of imprecision by dealing in generalities.

Mind you that these are not rankings, and all presidential rankings end up being ideologically slanted. You may love an activist president like Woodrow Wilson and think him a progressive dreamboat. Or, “Silent Cal” Coolidge may be your kind of limited government guy. That’s up to you.

We’re only talking here about what kind of president Trump will be – not whether he will be a good one or a bad one. All the categories, save one, have produced successful administrations.

With that in mind, let’s take a test drive.

AGENTS OF CHANGE

Thomas Jefferson, James Monroe, Andrew Jackson, James Polk, Abraham Lincoln, Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, Lyndon Johnson and Ronald Reagan

Most presidents aspire to this category, especially since they tend to be the ones with the largest legacies. Trump certainly aspires to join these ranks, having very explicitly chosen political revolutionary Jackson as his role model.

The undisputed greatest of this category, Lincoln, is something of an anomaly since he sought to be a steward of the founders’ vision but threw himself into a remaking of the office – and the republic – when the Civil War began.

Trump certainly seems to have the energy and love of battle to join these ranks. He also has consistent ideological crusades – clamping down on immigration and trade – that could propel him into the history books as one who remakes the office in a lasting way.

CAPTIVES

John Adams, John Quincy Adams, John Tyler, Franklin Pierce, James Buchanan, Andrew Johnson, Herbert Hoover, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, George W. Bush and Barack Obama

Many of the captives are frustrated agents of change who, like Hoover or Obama, came to office looking to do big things and enact sweeping reforms but found themselves unequal to the moment.

A president can be held captive by events – an unforeseen war, a financial panic, etc. – by the political atmosphere – recalcitrant Congress, upheaval in the electorate, etc. – or simply by their own incompetent administration.

It’s not always a bad thing when presidents fail to achieve their lofty aims, either.

If Trump tries to reinvent Washington and fails, it could turn out in several different ways. But captivity is certainly one of them. Essentially, Congress, the courts and, to some degree, his own administration, would simply tie him down and smother his ambitions.

STEWARDS

James Madison, Martin Van Buren, Millard Fillmore, Rutherford Hayes, James Garfield, Chester Arthur, Benjamin Harrison, William Taft, Calvin Coolidge, Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John Kennedy, Richard Nixon, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton

Historians tend to be more dismissive of this category since they tend to see themselves more as custodians of the office and the public trust rather than forces of upheaval. But in many cases, it’s hard to argue with the results.

Such presidencies are usually only possible during periods of relative peace and prosperity, like the one we are in now.

But we needn’t spend too much time on this category since Trump has set astonishingly lofty goals for himself. As would befit a master self-promoter, Trump is swinging for the fences. It seems unlikely that he would suddenly change to Coolidgian restraint.

FIGUREHEADS

Zachary Taylor, Ulysses Grant, William McKinley and Warren Harding

You don’t necessarily have to be good at being president to have a good presidency and several of Trump’s forebears point the way.

These men are cousins to both the captives and the stewards in the sense that they are not agents of change. What makes them different is they aren’t really trying – or able – to bring change. Ohioans Grant, McKinley and Harding all ended up being, by varying degrees, front men for their more ambitious or savvy associates.

One hallmark of these administrations tends to be considerable corruption since the boss may not be watching too closely. A president who wants to act like the ceremonial leader of the administrative state should choose his associates wisely.

As Grant and Harding could both attest, the stench of scandal will follow a president even in times of peace and prosperity.


BREAKING: TRUMP NAMES NEW NSA ADVISER

NYT: “President Trump picked Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, a widely respected military strategist, as his new national security adviser on Monday, calling him ‘a man of tremendous talent and tremendous experience.’ Mr. Trump made the announcement at his Mar-a-Lago getaway in Palm Beach, Fla., where he has been interviewing candidates to replace Michael T. Flynn, who was forced out after withholding information from Vice President Mike Pence about a call with Russia’s ambassador.”



REVISED REFUGEE BAN EXPECTED SOON

Fox News: “President Trump’s revised travel ban targets the same seven countries listed in his original executive order and exempts travelers who already have a visa to travel to the U.S., even if they haven’t used it yet. A senior White House official said the order will target only those same seven Muslim-majority nations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Somalia, Yemen, Sudan and Libya…The official said the order could come sometime this week. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the order before its made public, said that green-card holders and dual citizens of the U.S. and any of those countries are exempt. The new draft also no longer directs authorities to single out – and reject – Syrian refugees when processing new visa applications.”


NOW, WE’LL TELL YOU WHAT

As promised, here’s your answer key to the presidential trivia stumpers posed above. Enjoy the rest of your Presidents Day!

1) Being secretary of state is a top job, but for Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, Quincy Adams, Van Buren it was only a precursor to the presidency.

2) Being heir to Kennedy’s reign had its perks for Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1964, making him the only Democrat to claim victory in the Golden State from 1952 until Bill Clinton’s 1992 victory.

3) George McGovern’s native land is the wide-open plain of South Dakota.

4) Winning 270 electoral votes is hard enough these days for presidential candidates, but these guys ran away with the thing getting over 500 electoral votes: Reagan in 1984, Nixon in 1972 and FDR in 1936

5) He claimed allegiance to the Wolverines in his adulthood, but Gerald Ford was born a Cornhusker like every good Nebraskan.

6) John F. Kennedy was the last to wear a stovepipe hat at his inauguration, though by removing it during his actual inaugural address he set a new fashion trend.

7) Calling for backup! In the event that something happens to the president and vice president, House Speaker Paul Ryan, President pro tempore of the Senate Orrin Hatch and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson would be the next three up for the job, in that order.

8) Former President William Howard Taft’s role as chief justice gave him the privilege of swearing in both Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover.

9) Onward! The Whig Party elected two presidents: William Henry Harrison and Zachary Taylor.

10) Garfield was the last to claim that mark of homespun authenticity, being born in a log cabin.

Chris Stirewalt is the politics editor for Fox News. Sally Persons contributed to this report. Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.

Chris Stirewalt joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in July of 2010 and serves as digital politics editor based in Washington, D.C. Additionally, he authors the daily "Fox News First" political news note and hosts "Power Play," a feature video series, on FoxNews.com. Stirewalt makes frequent appearances on the network, including "The Kelly File," "Special Report with Bret Baier," and "Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace." He also provides expert political analysis for Fox News coverage of state, congressional and presidential elections.The office of a Missouri congressman says he intends to file a federal lawsuit over the removal of a constituent's painting from its display on Capitol Hill.

The painting, which shows a pig in a police uniform, divided members of Congress for its depiction of Ferguson, Missouri, where weeks of protests occurred after the police shooting of an unarmed black man.

The painting, one of 400-plus winning entries in the Congressional Arts Competition, hung in a tunnel leading to the Capitol for more than seven months.

Some conservative media outlets called for its removal and Republican lawmakers took it down and returned it to Democratic Rep. William Lacy Clay's office. Clay put it back up, saying its removal violated a constituent's First Amendment right to freedom of expression.

Clay's office said he will file a lawsuit Tuesday "in response to the arbitrary and unconstitutional disqualification and removal" of the painting.

"Congressman Clay is seeking an appropriate remedy through this federal litigation and he is proud to defend both the fundamental rights of his constituent and the First Amendment," according to an advisory his office sent in advance of a press conference Clay intends to hold Tuesday outside the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.He was at the center of Ukraine peace plan that came amid the troubling allegations that Russia tried to influence the presidential election to help elect Donald Trump.

In an exclusive Fox News interview, Felix Sater strongly denies any wrong doing by trying to push the plan, and says that he was never a connection between the Trump campaign and Moscow.

"What could be wrong in helping stop a war and trying to achieve peace? I have done so much for my country and thought that promoting peace was a good thing,” he told Fox News. “People are getting killed, it's a war."

Sater is a long time New York real estate developer who had worked for years with the Trump organization and the now-president on various real estate projects.

The New York Times reported that the Ukraine peace plan was drawn up by Sater, Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen, and a Ukraine opposition lawmaker, Andrii Artemenko. Cohen is alleged to have left the proposal on the desk of then National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, though the White House says that it has no record of that and that the envelope was never presented to the president.

Sater, who is 50 years old and was born in Moscow, also insists that he was not a link between the Trump campaign and the Russians. Reports have claimed that there was "repeated contact" between top campaign officials and Russian intelligence operatives throughout presidential race. The charges have been denied by both President Trump and White House officials. The allegations of Russian influence are being investigated by the F.B.I. and a variety of congressional committees.

"I was absolutely not a link between the Trump campaign and the Russian government,” he said. “I have no contact with anyone in the Russian government."

As for Moscow's intentions, he says "I have no idea. I don't have the foggiest notion of what the Russians were or were not doing. I have no business interests in Russia or business interests in the Ukraine. I just hoped that I could help stop a war. I didn't do anything wrong."

He also says that he is being portrayed unfairly in the media, because of his heritage.

"The press refers to me as 'a Russian businessman.' I came here when I was 7 years old,” he said. “I am an American businessman of Russian descent, who happens to have been born in Russia."

Sater bristles at the mentions of his 1998 guilty plea in what was described as "a major Mafia-linked stock-fraud scheme." He was also sentenced to prison for slashing a man in a 1991 bar fight.

'It feels horrible and terrible to be dragged through the mud for no reason whatsoever," he said.

Sater said what largely goes unnoticed is that for more than a decade, in the 1990s, he helped federal prosecutors who went after fraud cases in the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn, and elsewhere.

The former Eastern District U.S. Attorney who went on to become President Obama's Attorney General, Loretta Lynch, wrote a letter to Utah Senator Orrin Hatch praising Sater during her confirmation hearings two years ago.

Lynch wrote in part, "Felix Sater, provided valuable and sensitive information to the government during the course of his cooperation, which began in or about December 1998. For more than 10 years he worked with prosecutors in my office, the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York and law enforcement agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other law enforcement agencies, providing information crucial to national security and the conviction of over 20 individuals, including those responsible for committing massive financial fraud and members of La Cosa Nostra."

Sater said that so far, he has not been contacted by law enforcement.A U.S. congressman is filing a federal lawsuit alleging that the constitutional rights of a Missouri man were violated when the Architect of the Capitol ordered the removal of his painting from a congressional display.

Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-Mo., announced Monday that he is suing Stephen Ayers, Architect of the U.S. Capitol, in response to the "arbitrary and unconstitutional" removal of a painting created by former St. Louis student David Pulphus.The Kremlin said Monday that the Russian government does not know anything about a Ukraine peace plan crafted by an opposition Ukrainian lawmaker and two of President Donald Trump's associates.

Russia President Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, shrugged off the plan that the lawmaker in Ukraine reportedly tried to peddle to the Trump administration, dismissing it as "absurd."

The draft plan, first reported by The New York Times, calls for all Russian forces to withdraw from eastern Ukraine. It also calls for a referendum to let Ukrainian voters decide whether the Crimea, which was seized by Russia, should be leased to Moscow for 50 or 100 years. Russia isn't going "to rent its own region," Peskov said.

Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014, and Russian-speaking separatists in Ukraine began protests that escalated into a war. More than 9,800 people have died since April 2014 in fighting in eastern Ukraine between government forces and Russia-backed separatists. A deal two years ago known as the Minsk agreement was intended to end the conflict, but skirmishes have continued.

The newspaper said the peace plan was the work of Felix Sater, a business associate who has helped Trump try to find business in Russia, and Trump's personal lawyer, Michael Cohen. They worked with Andrii Artemenko, who is running a pro-Russian political opposition movement in Ukraine, which was aided by Trump's former campaign manager Paul Manafort.

Cohen told the newspaper that he had delivered the draft peace plan to the White House, leaving it in the office of Michael Flynn before he was fired as Trump's national security adviser. But Cohen told The Washington Post he did not give it to anyone in the White House.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov echoed the comments of Putin's spokesman. "It is difficult for me to comment because it is not possible to lease something from oneself," Lavrov said, according to state news agency RIA Novosti."President Trump’s former campaign manager on Monday took a swipe at the president’s inner circle, blaming their inexperience for some of Trump’s most recent public missteps.

“The staff has probably not prepared him as well as they could have or should have as it related to some of those executive orders and the implementation and what that would mean,” Corey Lewandowski said in an interview on David Axelrod’s “The Axe Files.”

Lewandowski took aim at the rocky rollout of Trump’s controversial immigration executive order, which wound up in federal court.

“You have a president who wants to move very quickly, who has a grand vision of what he wants to accomplish and is leaving the details to the staff to implement and (hoping) that the staff understands what that means,” Lewandowski said.

Much of the miscommunication lies with Trump’s closest comrades, he claimed.

“As I look at the totality of senior staff – and if that’s Kellyanne Conway, Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus, Jared Kushner - the senior staff inside of the building, none of them have ever worked inside the government and I think it’s both a plus and a minus,” Lewandowski said. “You don’t know what you don’t know.”

Lewandowski spent 18 months as Trump’s campaign manager. He was key in helping score multiple primary wins but was fired in June after a protracted turf war.

“Enough people had told him that I didn’t have the core competency or capability to get him any further than I had gotten him, which at that point was the Republican nomination,” Lewandowski said. “They believed that they needed a more seasoned professional who was going to come in and run the campaign and at that juncture they believed that Paul Manafort - who candidly had never run a campaign in his life – has been a delegate counter – was that person.”

It’s no secret that Manafort and Lewandowski at times have been at odds with one another. They were both considered rival powerhouses jockeying for Trump’s attention during the campaign. Manafort took over operational control after Lewandowski left. Manafort resigned two months later after stories surfaced about his ties in Ukraine.

Despite his lack of confidence in Trump’s inner circle, Lewandowski says he’s remained friendly with Trump and continues to support his former boss’s broad outlook for the country. He also says the Trump White House can reset and move past its first unsteady month.

“What I think you’ll see moving forward hopefully is a measured approach,” Lewandowski said. “Not to scale back on fulfilling the promises of the campaign but making sure that you have vetted it properly not only with the right legal entities but also giving a head’s up to those people in congress so you don’t have backlash from your own party.”

Trump has been dealing with the roughest stretch of his young presidency so far.

During a press conference where he was supposed to nominate former federal prosecutor Alexander Acosta for labor secretary after his first nominee, fast food chain CEO Andrew Puzder bowed out, Trump unleashed a battery of accusations against the media.

His lengthy presser came on the heels of Michael Flynn resigning as national security adviser over a controversy regarding his past contact with Russia’s ambassador.

At the press conference, Trump staunchly defended his administration’s work on everything from the economy to security.

“This administration is running like a fine-tuned machine,” Trump said.

The White House did not immediately return a request for comment.A Democrat who sits on the Federal Election Commission, says partisan gridlock and dysfunction led her to resign before her term expires. Ann Ravel’s early exit gives President Donald Trump the opportunity to “drain the swamp” and shake up the campaign finance system.

“People from all walks of life should be able to run for office without having to seek out wealthy donors, or be wealthy themselves, to win,” she wrote in a letter, published to Medium.

The California native promised the Trump administration that she would remain through the transition despite her desire to leave.

“I had intended to leave earlier because I felt my effectiveness on the commission had been waning,” Ravel told Fox News.

“It may be difficult for the group who has been there for so long,” to reach consensus on FEC matters, she added.

Ravel urged Trump to reform the campaign finance system, which she maintains was tainted by so-called dark money.

"I respectfully urge you to prioritize campaign finance reform to remedy the significant problems identified during the last election cycle," the letter said.

Like her Democratic colleagues, she decried the “mistaken jurisprudence of Citizens United,” the 2010 Supreme Court ruling that found political spending is protected free speech.

Her dissatisfaction has grown in recent months, as has her public advocacy for reform and her criticism of the Republican commissioners on the panel. According to the Washington Free Beacon, Ravel even stopped attending commission meetings.

Ravel said she would depart on March 1, but her Twitter bio already has been changed to “former” commissioner.

She argued in the New York Times Monday that the FEC was “betraying” the American public -- a betrayal she blamed on a “controlling bloc of three Republican commissioners who are ideologically opposed to the F.E.C.’s purpose,” and fail to enforce the law.

Lee Goodman, a Republican FEC commissioner, said Ravel has been a "determined voice for regulation of First Amendment rights" who is likely to remain engaged "in the important debate that has animated our time on the commission together."

However, Goodman tells Fox News that what Democrats decry as a lack of enforcement and dysfunction is simply a consequence of deregulation of election law over the years.

“Nearly half of what the FEC regulated and punished in the mid-2000s has been deregulated. Deregulation explains lower civil penalties, not Commissioner Ravel's meme of 'dysfunction' within the Commission," he said.

The decision to leave early presents a unique opportunity for a president who campaigned on a pledged to “drain the swamp.”

The president’s hands, however, are somewhat limited in terms of his next appointment.

Federal law requires the commission be equally divided between Republicans and Democrats, so Trump wouldn’t be able to fill the vacancy with a registered Republican.

David Kolker, legal counsel with the Campaign Legal Center, said if he follows tradition, Trump will allow Democrats on Capitol Hill to suggest a replacement, whom he would rubber-stamp.

“The question is whether he would buck all history and go for the nuclear option by not choosing a Republican or a Democrat,” Kolker, who is a former FEC counsel, told Fox News.

The other lingering question is whether Trump will decide to completely shake up the system.

It is unclear the role White House Counsel Don McGahn, a former FEC commissioner, will play in filling the vacancies on the panel.

Because all five commissioners currently are in holdover status, Kolker says there is nothing in the law preventing Trump from appointing five new candidates to fill out their respective terms.

“If he simply replaces Ravel with another Democrat, things will stay pretty much the same,” said Kolker.

According to a 2016 Inspector General report, dissention among the commissioners and openly partisan warfare has contributed to low employee morale and hampered the FEC’s ability to fill top management positions.

“Employees fault the commissioners for much of the low morale at the agency,” said the report.

In addition, several key management positions, including general counsel, chief financial officer and chief information security officer, had been vacant for more than one year.Protesters held demonstrations on Presidents Day Monday in cities across the country in opposition to Donald Trump’s presidency, questioning the legitimacy of his White House victory and opposing him on a variety of issues including immigration and climate science.

At least nine events were held under the social media-driven “Not My Presidents Day” movement.

"Donald Trump is not my president. What president has been?" activist Gray Michael Parson told a crowd of about 100 people in Dupont Circle, in Washington, D.C. "I implore you to please get involved."

The events Monday follow a weekend of rallies, including one in New York’s Times Square against Trump’s temporary travel ban on several mostly-Muslim nations that drew hundreds of demonstrators.

Trump’s presidency and his policies -- particularly his aggressive efforts to secure U.S. borders from terror attacks -- have sparked protests since election night, when he won the White House through the Electoral College vote but lost the popular vote by roughly 2 million ballots.

The late-afternoon event in Washington was focused on the issues of race and gender equality.

An earlier, midday rally was scheduled in front of the Supreme Court to make the case that Russia “invaded” the 2016 primary and general election. So the results are invalid, unconstitutional and should be made “null and void,” according to organizer Revote Coalition.

The New York rally took place on Columbus Circle, just blocks south of Trump International Hotel, in Manhattan

Organizers expect 14,000 demonstrators, but the numbers appeared only in the hundreds.

There was no reports of major arrests or property damage, like that associated with Inauguration Day protests last month.

Other cities in which rallies were held Monday included Atlanta, Los Angeles, Chicago, Denver, Milwaukee and Kansas City, Missouri.

While some of the rallies had a particular theme, like Atlanta’s call to “impeach” Trump, others, like the one in Chicago, was a call for unity, organizers said.Police investigator Peter Springare isn’t likely to be among those mocking President Trump for his remarks about refugees in Sweden.

Trump’s comments during a Florida campaign rally on Saturday – which some took as a misstatement about a supposed terror attack – dovetail with what Springare has been seeing during a typical week in Orebro, Sweden. Five rapes, three assaults, a pair of extortions, blackmail, an attempted murder, violence against police and a robbery made up Springare’s caseload for a five-day period earlier this month, according to a Feb. 3 Facebook post he wrote. The suspects were all from Muslim-majority countries – Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia and Turkey – save for one Swedish man nabbed in a drug-related case.

“Mohammed, Mahmod, Ali, again and again,” Springare wrote of those arrested.

Springare, who was briefly investigated for possible hate crime incitement based on his post, managed to elucidate what Trump only hinted at during a Florida campaign speech – somewhat opaquely.

Expand / Contract Swedish police investigator Peter Springare is in trouble after this Facebook post went viral. (Translated for ZeroHedge.com)

“You look at what’s happening last night in Sweden,” Trump said. “Sweden. Who would believe this? Sweden. They took in large numbers. They’re having problems like they never thought possible.”

Many analysts took issue with Trump’s “last night” framing, and immediately compared the line to recent misstatements by Trump spokespeople, such as counselor Kellyanne Conway’s infamous “Bowling Green Massacre” blunder.

But Trump explained on Twitter late Sunday that he was only referring to a Fox News segment that aired on Friday night’s “Tucker Carlson Tonight” dealing with the Swedish refugee crime.

My statement as to what's happening in Sweden was in reference to a story that was broadcast on @FoxNews concerning immigrants & Sweden. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 19, 2017

“It seems like we may be missing the point of the story, which is there has been a massive social cost associated with the refugee policies and the immigration policies of Western Europe,” Carlson said on “Fox & Friends” on Monday morning.

He added: “Fifty years of immigration policy is coming to flower in Europe. We’re not paying any attention. We’re not drawing any of the obvious lessons from it. It's not working. That's the real point here. ”

Trump tweeted again on Monday morning, blasting media outlets that failed to report on Sweden's migrant crime epidemic.

"Give the public a break - The FAKE NEWS media is trying to say that large scale immigration in Sweden is working out just beautifully. NOT!" Trump wrote.

Give the public a break - The FAKE NEWS media is trying to say that large scale immigration in Sweden is working out just beautifully. NOT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2017

Fox News reached out to the Swedish Embassy for comment, however, the building was closed for President's Day. The embassy did tweet back to Trump on Sunday: "We look forward to informing the US administration about Swedish immigration and integration policies."



We look forward to informing the US administration about Swedish immigration and integration policies. https://t.co/x5G3euOWRh — Embassy of Sweden US (@SwedeninUSA) February 19, 2017

Last month, the police chief for the southern Swedish city of Malmo issued a desperate plea for help curtailing a plague of attempted murders, beatings and rapes. About 32 percent of Malmo’s occupants are migrants, although it is not clear what role migrants play in the crime wave.

“We cannot do it on our own,” Chief Stefan Sinteus wrote in an open letter about the “upward spiral of violence.”

And Sinteus is not merely dealing with typical crimes that any modern city would witness.

Malmo had 52 hand grenade attacks in 2016 alone, a jump from 48 attacks in 2015, according to figures provided by the Swedish Police Authority.

Nationwide, the terror threat level is at “elevated” and police believe at least 300 Swedish nationals have travelled to Syria and Iraq for jihadi training. On Feb. 11, a Swedish man and a Danish man were arrested in Turkey, suspected of plotting to carry out attacks in Europe. Tofik Saleh, a 38-year-old Swedish citizen of Iraqi origin, had been training with ISIS since 2014, officials said.

On the same day Springare posted his screed, a Swedish court turned over to Belgium evidence – seized in Malmo – in connection with the 2016 Brussels terror attacks, prosecutors said.

Sweden has taken in 650,000 asylum-seekers during the past 15 years – including 163,000 in 2015 alone, The Spectator reported. Of those refugees, 35,000 were unaccompanied children – or at least claimed to be. The children – mostly males from Afghanistan and Somalia – are only identified as minors by the age the applicant gives. The only time an applicant-provided age is rejected is if it’s “obviously” untrue, though there’s no clear definition of “obviously.” The Spectator interviewed asylum-seekers who admitted to lying about their age to improve their chances of avoiding deportation.

Carlson warned this mass influx of migrants, many of whom are uneducated and jobless, has begun to alter the face – and crime rates – of countries such as Sweden.

“[The integration policy] hasn’t worked very well, at all,” Carlson said. “And it’s in the process of totally changing these ancient cultures into something different and much more volatile and much more threatening, so what are the lessons we should draw from this? That’s the conversation we should have.”