WASHINGTON ― One month into his presidency, Donald Trump’s popularity has begun tanking with every constituency, save one.

GOP voters remain loyal to the president. And not by small margins. While just 39 percent of all respondents in a recent Pew poll said they approved of the job Trump was doing, 84 percent of Republican and Republican-leaning voters said they felt that way. GOP support for Trump surpasses that for George W. Bush, his father, and Ronald Reagan at similar points in their presidencies.

These numbers have fed the perception that Trump is a sui generis type of political figure ― one whose avid base will stick by him regardless of foible or misstep. It’s a perception that Trump himself has pushed, famously declaring that he “could stand in the Middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody” and not lose any votes.

The reality, of course, is far more complicated. And it was readily apparent at this week’s Conservative Political Action Conference. The gathering of students, activists and operatives featured a number of die-hard Trump supporters, including those able to rationalize a principled support of the president, even after such a hypothetical shooting.

“I’d stand behind him until he is impeached,” said Eric Finch of West Virginia. “Because he is my president and I respect the office and the process. I’d probably go out and call for his impeachment if he shot someone. But there has to be a process. And I imagine there would be a story. Maybe the guy attacked him, or Secret Service wasn’t there.”

But Trump’s hold on the crowd had as much to do with party as personality. People at CPAC approved of Trumpism as much as, if not more than, Trump himself. And their loyalty to the party was, perhaps, supreme.

“After eight years of Barack Obama and tax-and-spend economics, a Republican who doesn’t do a very good job would have to do a really bad job to anger the movement,” said Cody Leach, of Maryland. “We have to be a faithful party because we are faithful servants. We have to lead him [Trump] to the light.”

CPAC has never been ideal turf for Trump. Though the gathering helped legitimize him among conservatives when he first appeared in 2011, he skipped the conference in 2016, out of fear that the crowd would walk out of his speech in protest. His address on Friday sparked no such act of defiance. It was, instead, a fairly well received, if not meandering, attack on the press, and a review of campaign promises.

Overall, however, the mood was notably more subdued than past gatherings. After eight years out of power in the White House, attendees seemed thrilled to have finally reached the mountaintop. But, as even the organizers conceded, they still didn’t know what to make of the sherpa.

“There is a good healthy skepticism with most people,” said CPAC’s organizer, Matt Schlapp. “Conservatives have felt like they’ve taken the bait before. ... Voters get told, ‘Oh yeah. We will do this.’ And then they get into power and sometimes don’t do so much because those issues are controversial. The one thing about Donald Trump is what he’s showing conservatives, is that he doesn’t seem to care that much if something is controversial. If it is something he said he was going to do, he is a bulldog about getting it done.”

Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

For Trump’s true believers, it is precisely that bulldog nature that makes him such a draw. Standing outside the hotel where the conference was held, Nigel Farage ― the former leader of the U.K. Independence Party, Brexit champion and closest approximation to Trump that England can offer ― scoffed at a query about what Trump might do to possibly disappoint.

“It’s a ridiculous question,” Farage said, in between drags from his cigarette. “It’s a ludicrous question. I don’t know. ... What you’ve seen in the first few days is his full intention to carry out his campaign promises. How refreshing.”

Several attendees standing nearby were delighted, one gleefully declaring that Farage had gone full “beast mode”

Inside the sliding-glass doors of the hotel, others were similarly passionate. Kira Innis, 30, of Los Angeles, who claimed to have wanted Trump to run for president since she was 13, said the only thing that would force her to question her support would be if Trump sanded down his infamously rough edges.

“The only thing he could do to piss me off is to stop being Trump,” said Innis, arguing that, with an “immense sense of brilliance and strategy” Trump picked Mike Pence as his vice president precisely for those who wanted political vanilla. “If [Trump] isn’t that non-nonsense pit bull that he is, then I would be upset. Then I’d be like, ‘Ummm. We don’t want THAT.’”

But at CPAC, these types of comments, even from those proudly toting Trump paraphernalia, were the minority. Most attendees said that while they were uncomfortable with Trump’s warts, they were able to overlook look them because he was a vessel for their policies.

Dakota Workman, 22, from West Virginia, said the White House was not operating, as Trump insisted, like “a fine-tuned machine,” though he noted that no administration is this early on. But he appreciated the new coal regulations, the ban on lobbying and Trump’s Supreme Court pick even more. If the president backpedaled on Obamacare repeal, he said, he’d be upset with Congress and start thinking about ditching Trump. “I sucked up my pride and voted for him more because it was about beating Hillary Clinton,” Workman explained.

Matthew Edward, 23, came to CPAC from Illinois. Trump was his third choice for president, after Ben Carson and Ted Cruz. But on Thursday, he roamed the halls in a MAGA hat, perfectly content with how the administration was operating.

“If campaign season starts up in 2020 and there is no bricks in the [Mexico] wall, I would have to say, at that point, ‘O.K., what’s going on?” Edward eventually conceded.

As Trump navigates his first year in office, his challenge will be keeping these types of voters in the fold as he confronts the tough realities of actual governance. A border wall won’t be built quickly, and the repeal of Obamacare may never occur. The question is whether Workman, Edward and many others can forgive a lack of progress as quickly as they forgive Trump’s idiosyncratic politics.

So far, he has been given a fair amount of leeway.

“If he told the same lies that Hillary Clinton was caught in” ― using a private email server for public business ― “I couldn’t vote for him then,” said Andrew Pace, 19, of Florida, who wore a “Make America Great Again” hat signed by conservative media provocateur James O’Keefe as he walked the hotel halls. “But even then, I’d vote for another Republican candidate. Either that or [Rep.] Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii). I love Tulsi.”Like what you read below? Sign up for HUFFPOST HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!

Donald Trump, a guy who frequently pretended to be a fake Donald Trump spokesman, thinks anonymous quotes shouldn’t exist. Sean Spicer graciously spared the New York Times, Politico and CNN from having to publish his lies today. And Marco Rubio called town hall protesters “rude and stupid,” and thanks to that whole hands thing during the campaign, it isn’t actually the dumbest insult he’s ever levied against someone. This is HUFFPOST HILL for Friday, February 24th, 2017:

FIRST THIS: CNN REPORTS PRIEBUS TRIED TO STRONG-ARM FBI - CNN: “The FBI rejected a recent White House request to publicly knock down media reports about communications between Donald Trump’s associates and Russians known to US intelligence during the 2016 presidential campaign, multiple US officials briefed on the matter tell CNN. But a White House official said late Thursday that the request was only made after the FBI indicated to the White House it did not believe the reporting to be accurate. White House officials had sought the help of the bureau and other agencies investigating the Russia matter to say that the reports were wrong and that there had been no contacts, the officials said. The reports of the contacts were first published by The New York Times and CNN on February 14. The direct communications between the White House and the FBI were unusual because of decade-old restrictions on such contacts. Such a request from the White House is a violation of procedures that limit communications with the FBI on pending investigations.” [CNN]

THEN THIS: WHITE HOUSE LOCKS OUT CNN - Michael Calderone: “The White House blocked several news outlets from attending a closed-door briefing Friday afternoon with press secretary Sean Spicer, a decision that drew strong rebukes from news organizations and may only heighten tensions between the press corps and the administration. The New York Times and CNN, both of which have reported critically on the administration and are frequent targets of President Donald Trump, were prohibited from attending. The Huffington Post was also denied entry. Both the Associated Press and Time magazine, which were allowed to enter, boycotted out of solidarity with those news organizations kept out. Spicer said prior to the start of the administration that the White House may skip televised daily briefings in favor of an off-camera briefing or gaggle with reporters. But Spicer has continued doing televised daily briefings except when traveling, making Friday’s decision an unusual one that led to frustration among journalists kept out.” [HuffPost]

For those of you wondering what a White House staffed entirely by lobotomized clones of Philippe Reines would look like, you’ve finally got your wish: “It’s not clear if the Trump White House has maintained, revoked or replaced the rules. Aides to former President Barack Obama handed off copies of the policy as a model for the Trump White House during the transition, two people with knowledge of the situation said…. Asked about whether Priebus broke any rules, White House spokesman Michael Short said, ‘Your questions lack any basic knowledge about the issues at hand.’ ... Under Obama, White House staff were forbidden from contacting any agency or department about the merits of specific matters involving specific parties, including investigations, litigation and enforcement actions, according to a person familiar with the policy. All communications with the Justice Department, whether about a specific matter or not, were routed through the attorney general or his or her deputy.” [Politico’s Isaac Arnsdorf]

TRUMP KEEPS UP ATTACKS ON PRESS DURING CPAC SPEECH - Paige Lavender: “President Donald Trump criticized the media again on Friday while speaking at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference in National Harbor, Maryland. Trump claimed it was wrongly reported that he called the media the ‘enemy of the people’ last week, saying he’d actually called ‘fake news’ the enemy. But he has branded such reputable media outlets as the The New York Times, CNN, NBC and others ‘fake news.’ The president argued that the First Amendment gives him ‘the right to criticize fake news and criticize it strongly.’ ‘[The media] say that we can’t criticize their dishonest coverage because of the First Amendment,’ Trump said. ‘I love the First Amendment. Nobody loves it better than me,’ he added. Trump also said he thinks news outlets should not use anonymous sources, despite using them himself to make claims that have been proven false.” [HuffPost]

Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@huffingtonpost.com. Follow us on Twitter - @HuffPostHill

HERE COMES RYANCARE - If you like your plan, go &$@# yourself. Paul Demko: “A draft House Republican repeal bill would dismantle the Obamacare subsidies and scrap its Medicaid expansion…. The legislation would take down the foundation of Obamacare, including the unpopular individual mandate, subsidies based on people’s income, and all of the law’s taxes. It would significantly roll back Medicaid spending and give states money to create high risk pools for some people with pre-existing conditions. Some elements would be effective right away; others not until 2020. The replacement would be paid for by limiting tax breaks on generous health plans people get at work ― an idea that is similar to the Obamacare ‘Cadillac tax’ that Republicans have fought to repeal.” [Politico]

*Insert the most “Uber, for this” joke ever here*: “Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, claimed Friday that left-wing protesters are being paid $1,500 a week and deliberately inciting violence in response to Donald Trump’s presidency. Speaking at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference, LaPierre argued that those protesters are ‘willing to use violence against us’ and that ‘they want revenge.’ ‘They’re angry, they’re militant, and they’re willing to engage in criminal violence to get what they want,’ LaPierre said.” [HuffPost’s Paige Lavender]

REPUBLICAN PRIORITIES - Lee Fang and Nick Surgey: “Many of the same congressional Republicans who are ducking their constituents by refusing to hold town hall events during this week’s recess are actively offering to meet with donors ― for a fee…. Speaker Paul Ryan’s constituents in Wisconsin asked him for a town hall meeting during recess, but Ryan’s staff remained cagey about his whereabouts…. Ryan began the recess with a “Winter PAC Retreat” last weekend at the Ritz-Carlton Key Biscayne in Miami, an event that welcomed donors who have given ‘a minimum contribution of $10,000’ to the Team Ryan joint fundraising committee. That’s Ryan’s special PAC that can raise as much as $244,200 per person. Since the event in Miami, the speaker has toured Texas and California hosting events for the PAC in Corpus Christi, Fort Worth, Dallas, Houston, and Menlo Park.” [The Intercept]

RYAN SCREWING OVER HIS OWN DISTRICT - But he’s just a normal guy who likes hunting and getting things done. Laura Bassett: “Ryan and Republicans in Congress are aiming to pass legislation that blocks Medicaid recipients from choosing Planned Parenthood for health care and family planning services, including birth control, cancer screenings and sexually transmitted infection testing, because some of the provider’s clinics offer abortion. For many low-income women in rural areas, including Ryan’s district, Planned Parenthood is currently their only option for family planning or women’s health. In Wisconsin, Planned Parenthood runs 21 health centers. It serves about 60,000 patients a year, roughly 50,000 of whom are Medicaid eligible. Taking away the clinics’ ability to serve those on Medicaid ‘would significantly reduce our ability to provide care to a huge chunk of our patients, which could lead to clinic closures,’ said Nicole Safar, Planned Parenthood Wisconsin’s director of government relations.” [HuffPost]

AMERICAN CARNAGE UPDATE - And what has Bowling Green’s mayor done to stop the carnage there? Hayley Miller: “Despite President Donald Trump’s repeated criticism of Chicago’s rising homicide rate, the city’s police department says multiple requests for federal assistance have gone unanswered so far. The city’s superintendent of police, Eddie Johnson, called out the White House and Department of Justice on Thursday after Trump tweeted ‘Chicago needs help’ in light of several fatal shootings. Johnson said violence in some Chicago neighborhoods was ‘unacceptable’ but Trump’s administration had yet to provide support. ‘We’ve made requests to the White House and the Justice Department for them to support our work — from increasing federal gun prosecution to more FBI, DEA and ATF agents to more funding for mentoring, job training and more,’ Johnson said in a statement. ‘We are still waiting for the administration’s response to our request.’” [HuffPost]

THE WORST KIND OF VOTER-SUPPRESSION OWN GOAL - If you’re going to deny a bunch of people the franchise, at least have some chill. Samuel Levine: “The head of the Montana Republican Party wrote an emergency plea this week warning that legislation allowing residents to cast mail-in ballots would benefit Democrats and make it more difficult for the GOP to maintain control of state politics. At issue is legislation introduced by Montana state Sen. Steve Fitzpatrick (R) that would allow Montanans to cast mail-in ballots in a special election later this year to fill the U.S. House seat vacated by Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.), whom President Donald Trump tapped to lead the Interior Department. Fitzpatrick introduced the bill to save the state $500,000 by not requiring election judges and other officials to be hired on short notice, he told The Associated Press.” [HuffPost]

LITTLE MARCO WON’T BE THE BIGGER MAN - This sort of thing could blow his lead in the establishment lane. Arthur Delaney: “When a constituent confronted Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) Thursday about why he wasn’t holding a town hall event during this week’s congressional recess, Rubio gave what seemed an honest answer. ‘I don’t know man, because town halls, people get rude and stupid ― on both sides,’ the senator told the man. A community organizer for the Florida chapter of the Service Employees International Union tweeted a video of the encounter, which happened in a lecture hall at Florida International University, where Rubio teaches a class. The questioner appears to be Rafael Velasquez, a member of the Florida Democratic party’s board of trustees.” [HuffPost]

BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s a small child being a little too literal about cooking.

*Scratch chin emoji, but wearing a fedora with a press bill* “Executives at The Washington Post say they began considering the newspaper’s eye-grabbing new motto long before President Donald Trump was elected. The newspaper began running the phrase ‘Democracy Dies in Darkness’ beneath its online masthead this week. The slogan will begin appearing in the Post’s print edition next week.” [AP]

COMFORT FOOD

- A very literal interpretation of “Uptown Funk.”

- While we’re on the subject of funk, here’s what bass strings on an electric guitar sound like.

TWITTERAMA

@HCheadle: *hires senior staff of rivals who hate each other*

“Who is behind these treasonous leaks?!”

@FanSince09: I would finance a group of black twitter’s finest roasters to go to town halls and just mercilessly lay into representatives

@hunterw: The year 2035. Ex-President Trump sits by a fireplace at Mar a Lago. He leans towards his great grandson: “We had 17 people running ...”While President Donald Trump has suggested that the United States must expand its nuclear arsenal, many experts say U.S. nuclear forces are unrivaled and will remain so as they undergo a modernization program that could cost more than $1 trillion.

In an interview with Reuters on Thursday, Trump said the United States has “fallen behind on nuclear weapon capacity.” He pledged to ensure that, “We’re going to be at the top of the pack.”

While Moscow currently deploys 200 more strategic nuclear warheads than the United States does, both countries are bound by the 2010 New START treaty to slash their deployed strategic warheads to no more than 1,550 each by February 2018, the lowest level in decades. The accord also limits their deployed land- and submarine-based missiles and nuclear-capable bombers.

However, nuclear weapons experts say, the 30-year modernization program, which maintains many existing weapons and their computers, communications, electronics, and other systems, is more important than having as many warheads as Russia has.

Trump “says we can’t fall behind. Fall behind who and how?” said Stephen Schwartz, an independent nuclear weapons expert. “It is not clear to me, and it’s not clear to many of my colleagues” what the president is talking about when he pledges to expand U.S. nuclear weapons capacity, Schwartz said.

Moreover, the U.S. advantage is based not on the numbers of warheads it can field compared to Russia, but on more advanced delivery systems.

Most of Moscow’s nuclear force - now being modernized, as well - is comprised of land-based ICBMs whose locations it discloses to Washington under arms control accords, said Schwartz, former publisher of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists leading journal.

The United States maintains an “invulnerable” fleet of nuclear-armed submarines beneath the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans that are immune from detection, he said.

In contrast, Russia’s accident-prone missile submarines rarely conduct their “deterrence patrols” far from their docks.

RUSSIA WAY BEHIND

In a fiscal 2012 report to Congress, the Pentagon assessed that even if Russia broke out of the limits imposed by the New START treaty and deployed more nuclear weapons, it could not gain strategic advantage over the United States.

“The Russian Federation, therefore, would not be able to achieve a militarily significant advantage by any plausible expansion of its strategic nuclear forces, even in a cheating or breakout scenario under the New START Treaty,” the report said.

Trump “clearly needs to get a briefing on the capacity of U.S. nuclear forces,” said Hans Kristensen, director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists, a leading arms control organization.

The 30-year U.S. modernization program is intended to maintain the American advantage. It upgrades and extends the lives of every U.S. nuclear weapons system – intercontinental ballistic missiles, long-range bombers and submarines – and their warheads.

In addition, the Pentagon has drawn up plans to replace many systems with a new bomber, new ballistic missile submarine, and new missiles.

Many lawmakers and experts are concerned about the price tag of the effort, given the high cost of repairing and modernizing the country’s conventional military forces and the budgetary demands of non-military programs.

The costs of the modernization program has been estimated at as much as $1 trillion over the next 30 years.

But a report published this month by the Congressional Budget Office indicated that the overall cost is rising.

Nuclear force plans set out by the Pentagon and the Energy Department – the caretaker of the U.S. nuclear arsenal – in their fiscal 2017 budget requests would cost an estimated $400 billion during only the 10-year period ending in fiscal 2026.WASHINGTON — If it meant escaping the current political atmosphere, nearly 1 in 3 Americans say they’d be willing to leave Earth altogether.

That’s according to a SurveyMonkey poll conducted Thursday, which found that 29 percent of U.S. adults would consider temporarily moving to one of the newly discovered Earth-like planets to avoid the next four years under President Donald Trump.

The journey wouldn’t be easy. Those seven planets are orbiting a dwarf star some 39 light-years — or 230 trillion miles — away. But whatever it takes, right?

Carlos Barria/Reuters

The survey was not limited to one’s willingness to shoot for the stars. It also asked whether people believe alien life will be discovered in the TRAPPIST-1 system, whom they think the new planets should be named after, and which actor who’s starred in a movie about outer space would be the best American ambassador to alien worlds.

Here are some of the other findings:

Forty-eight percent said they believe alien life will be discovered on the TRAPPIST-1 planets, while 52 percent do not.

Sixty-nine percent want there to be life on the exoplanets.

Thirty-four percent said Tom Hanks would be the best U.S. ambassador to the planets, given his role in the movie “Apollo 13.” Behind him came William Shatner (“Star Trek”), with 29 percent; Matt Damon (”The Martian”), 22 percent; Zoe Saldana (”Avatar”), 8 percent; and Amy Adams (”Arrival”), 7 percent.

Twenty-four percent believe humans will never be able to travel to the TRAPPIST-1 planets, while 22 percent think we’ll reach them by 2050.

If alien lifeforms are discovered, 80 percent think we should try to communicate with them.

Forty-nine percent would like to see more government funding for space exploration.

Fifty-three percent think it’s more important for the government to fund climate change research than space exploration, while 34 percent said they’re equally important.

Sixty-three percent think private companies, rather than government agencies, should take the lead in funding space exploration.

The poll, which collected responses from 1,051 adults, followed NASA’s announcement Wednesday about the discovery of seven planets orbiting TRAPPIST-1, an “ultra-cool dwarf” star in the constellation Aquarius. Three of those planets lie in the “Goldilocks Zone,” a habitable region around a star in which a planet is most likely to harbor water and even life.WASHINGTON ― The Montana Senate has passed a bill that would effectively ban abortions at 24 weeks, even if the mother’s life is in danger, by requiring doctors to try to deliver the fetus alive.

The legislation, approved by senators on Thursday, establishes fetal viability at 24 weeks and threatens doctors with a felony if they perform an abortion for any reason after that point in a woman’s pregnancy. If abortion is necessary to save a woman’s life, doctors are required to either deliver the fetus by caesarian section or induce labor, even if those are not the best medical options for the woman’s health, and then try to resuscitate the baby.

The author of the bill, state Sen. Albert Olszewski (R), said the legislation “was inspired by a real situation, a situation where a late-term pregnancy put a woman in a life-threatening condition and had to deal with this horrible decision of being told she had to terminate this pregnancy.”

Democrats said the bill is unconstitutional and extreme, because it uses the guise of protecting women’s health to limit abortion.

“Think about all the people you want to have participate in that decision at that critical, difficult, painful decision,” said Sen. Dick Barrett (D). “Then ask yourself, ‘Do you want the members of the Montana Senate?’ I think the answer is no.”

A female Democratic senator pointed out that Olszewski is an orthopedic surgeon, not an obstetrician. Olszewski responded by saying he was “blushing” too much during his clinical rounds to become an OB-GYN.

Late-term abortions are very rare. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, less than 2 percent of abortions occur after 20 weeks of pregnancy. Women who do choose abortion in the third trimester often do so because they face difficult medical situations that arise late into the pregnancy.Since January, Jewish community centers have been terrorized by anonymous bomb threats.

There have been at least 69 bomb threats called into 55 centers across the country as of Feb. 24. The majority of the threats have come in waves and often feature a disguised, robotic voice. One of those calls warned of “slaughter” by explosion. So far all the calls have been deemed hoaxes.

Below is a map showing the centers that have received confirmed bomb threats so far. The caller or callers appear to have no geographic target, though the vast majority have been received in the United States.

We will continue to update this map as threats are received, using information compiled from the Jewish Community Center Association of North America and our own reporting. If you know of a JCC that has received a threat but is not on this list, please email us here.

Hover over or tap a circle to see which centers in your area have received threats:Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, claimed Friday that left-wing protesters are being paid $1,500 a week and deliberately inciting violence in response to Donald Trump’s presidency.

Speaking at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference, LaPierre argued that those protesters are “willing to use violence against us” and that “they want revenge.”

“They’re angry, they’re militant, and they’re willing to engage in criminal violence to get what they want,” LaPierre said.

Several supporters of Trump, including his own administration officials, have accused those participating in the recent wave of street protests and town hall clashes of being paid for their opposition, although there’s no evidence of that.

LaPierre’s attack extended to the federal judges who have weighed in on the suspension of Trump’s executive order limiting Muslim immigration and travel to the U.S. The NRA leader criticized the judges as “unelected, unaccountable.”

He also accused the media and the intelligence community of acting as “co-conspirators” against Trump, specifically chastising the reporting on Trump associates’ ties to Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign.

“Our country is under siege from a media carpet-bombing campaign,” LaPierre said. He claimed the press was “maliciously” trying to destroy Trump’s presidency.

LaPierre’s portrayal of Trump’s critics and opponents as enemies aligns with comments made by the president himself, but it represents a shift in focus from the NRA leader’s own past CPAC messages. During the last few years of Barack Obama’s presidency, he stuck primarily to more gun-focused themes.The 114th U.S. House of Representatives was the most anti-environmental in history, according to the League of Conservation Voters’ annual scorecard. The 2016 report found a House and Senate deeply divided along party lines on issues such as climate change and environmental protection.

The environmental group released its latest scorecard Thursday, documenting the environmental voting records of all members of Congress. Each member is given a score based on their votes, which the group uses as a yardstick to measure a legislator’s commitment to climate action, wildlife conservation, protection of clean air and water, and other environmental and public health issues.

The average score for House Republicans last year was just 5 percent, while the average House Democrat scored 94 percent, according to the report. The Republican-led House, under the leadership of Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), “remains the most anti-environmental in history,” LCV said in a statement. The House also earned that the ignominious title in 2015.

Tiernan Sittenfeld, LCV’s senior vice president of government affairs, told The Huffington Post in an email Thursday that the legislative body has become increasingly hostile to environmental protection since at least 2010. “The trend began with the Tea Party, Citizens United, and the Koch brothers and has continued for the last several years,” she said.

The Senate was similarly divided along party lines on issues pertaining to the environment last year, according to the scorecard. “Under Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, the Senate joined the House to attack critical environmental safeguards,” said the group. The average Senate Republican’s score last year was 14 percent, while the average score for Senate Democrats was 95 percent.

“In the final year of the Obama administration, the Republican leadership in Congress continued its relentless assault on both bedrock environmental protections and recent progress even as we experienced the hottest year on record ― for the third year in a row ― and world leaders came together on Earth Day to sign the historic climate agreement reached in Paris,” said Sittenfeld.

2016 was the hottest year on record, again! Did your Congress member do anything about it? Find out https://t.co/gxJMnVqUgR #LCVScorecard — LCV (@LCVoters) February 23, 2017

As the scorecard details, Congress considered bills last year that would undermine existing environmental and public health laws such as the Clean Air Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act and the Antiquities Act. There was also legislation to undermine the Clean Power Plan, which regulates greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, and the Clean Water Rule, which strives to protect the nation’s rivers, streams and wetlands from pollution. (President Donald Trump has vowed to neuter both regulations. He is expected to take executive action soon to curtail both policies.)

The LCV said the 2016 scorecard is a harbinger of what might be expected from the 115th Congress, which remains under Republican control. The group warned, however, that 2017 might be an even worse year for environmental and climate protection with Trump ― who has called global warming “bullshit” and has threatened to pull the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord ― at the helm.

Former President Barack Obama was “the greenest president in our history,” LCV said in its statement on the report. Under his leadership, the federal government put a moratorium on new coal leases on public lands, set limits on methane pollution from oil and gas drilling, and advanced other environmental protections. Obama also vetoed some of the most anti-environmental bills that came out of Congress.WASHINGTON― If House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) succeeds in his plan to “defund” Planned Parenthood while repealing the Affordable Care Act, his own district will be left unable to meet women’s health care needs.

Ryan and Republicans in Congress are aiming to pass legislation that blocks Medicaid recipients from choosing Planned Parenthood for health care and family planning services, including birth control, cancer screenings and sexually transmitted infection testing, because some of the provider’s clinics offer abortion.

For many low-income women in rural areas, including Ryan’s district, Planned Parenthood is currently their only option for family planning or women’s health. In Wisconsin, Planned Parenthood runs 21 health centers. It serves about 60,000 patients a year, roughly 50,000 of whom are Medicaid eligible. Taking away the clinics’ ability to serve those on Medicaid “would significantly reduce our ability to provide care to a huge chunk of our patients, which could lead to clinic closures,” said Nicole Safar, Planned Parenthood Wisconsin’s director of government relations.

Ryan says federally qualified community health centers outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics and therefore can absorb all of the patients. “They’re in virtually every community providing the same kinds of services,” he said at a recent town hall. But that’s not even true in his own district, where 6,000 women rely on Planned Parenthood for health care, according to the family planning provider. In Racine and Walworth counties,​​ where nearly half of Ryan’s constituents live, there are two Planned Parenthood health centers and zero federally qualified community health centers offering family planning services.

“There’s literally nowhere else to go for family planning,” said Sophie Schaut, a 22-year-old college student in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Schaut went to her local Planned Parenthood clinic for an intrauterine device when she was 20, and the clinic told her to pay whatever she could afford for the service.

“This is an organization that works,” she said. “I don’t know why we’re trying to fix something that’s not broken. It’s really frustrating.”

Republican lawmakers on a crusade to defund Planned Parenthood have continually relied on the myth that community health centers can easily absorb Planned Parenthood’s patients. And while some districts do have federally qualified health centers outside of Planned Parenthood, many of those clinics don’t offer reproductive health or family planning services. They include dentists’ offices, homeless shelters, food banks, mental health clinics and even cosmetic surgeons. Nearly one-third of women who rely on publicly funded family planning live in districts where Planned Parenthood is the primary or only safety net health care provider, according to a new report by American Bridge.

“The assertion that community health centers could step into a breach of this magnitude is simply wrong and displays a fundamental misunderstanding of how the health care system works,” said Dr. Sara Rosenbaum, chair of the Department of Health Policy at George Washington University.

Planned Parenthood supporters, including Schaut, are rallying in Ryan’s district on Friday to protest his defunding agenda. The congressman will not hold a town hall in his district this weekend, so a group of his constituents are holding an “empty chair” town hall without him on Sunday. His office did not respond to a request for comment.

Schaut said she’s been trying to call Ryan’s office to ask him to leave her health care alone, but the phone lines are always busy. In response, she’s becoming an activist in her county.NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. ― Former U.K. Independence Party leader Nigel Farage came to the annual Conservative Political Action Conference to congratulate himself on supporting U.S. President Donald Trump, bash the media and call for a “great global revolution.”

Farage drew a direct line between the June 2016 “Brexit” vote, in which British citizens opted to exit the European Union, and Trump’s surprising U.S. presidential victory in November.

Calling on more nations to vote for what he views as their nationalist interests, Farage noted, “We’ve got some very exciting elections coming up in the Netherlands, in France, in Germany, possibly even in Italy. They’re rejecting the idea of being governed by a bunch of unelected old men in Brussels.”

Farage helped lead the political movement behind Brexit, a position of isolationism that has caused debated economic effects in Britain and across Europe. The British pound immediately fell when British voters sided with Farage’s “leave” campaign in June. The currency recently dropped to a three-year low compared to the Euro and a three-decade low against the dollar.

Still, Brexit’s supporters have been emboldened recently, in part by Trump’s “America First” rhetoric and similar nationalist movements in Europe that advocate for tighter borders and policies that critics denounce as nativist and xenophobic.

Alex Wong via Getty Images British politician Nigel Farage speaks during the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday.

While Farage said countries should put their own interests first, he also advocated for good relations between countries that share a common language.

“Our real friends in the world speak English, have common law and stand by us in times of crisis,” he said.

Farage added that 2016 was the year democracies “made a comeback against the globalists of those who wish to destroy everything that we have ever been.”

He poured on the praise for Trump, saying that just as Brexit becomes more popular in Britain, Trump will become more popular in America.

“What I’m seeing 36 days into a Trump presidency, I’m seeing something quite remarkable,” Farage said. “I’m seeing an elected leader who is trying to put in place the platform on which he was elected.”

Every time he’s come to America since Trump’s election, Farage said, he feels a bit more American.

“What happened in 2016 is not the end of this great global revolution, what happened in 2016 is the beginning of a great global revolution,” he said.

Farage added that these new political actors were governing for their countries and their people.Despite President Donald Trump’s repeated criticism of Chicago’s rising homicide rate, the city’s police department says multiple requests for federal assistance have gone unanswered so far.

The city’s superintendent of police, Eddie Johnson, called out the White House and Department of Justice on Thursday after Trump tweeted “Chicago needs help” in light of several fatal shootings.

Johnson said violence in some Chicago neighborhoods was “unacceptable” but Trump’s administration had yet to provide support.

“We’ve made requests to the White House and the Justice Department for them to support our work — from increasing federal gun prosecution to more FBI, DEA and ATF agents to more funding for mentoring, job training and more,” Johnson said in a statement. “We are still waiting for the administration’s response to our request.”

Seven people shot and killed yesterday in Chicago. What is going on there - totally out of control. Chicago needs help! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

Trump brought up Chicago again Thursday during his keynote address at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Maryland, but failed to mention what specific federal resources he would make available to the city’s police.

“I’m also working with the Department of Justice to begin reducing violent crime,” Trump told the crowd. “I mean, can you believe what’s happening in Chicago, as an example? Two days ago, seven people were shot, and I believe killed. ... We will support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.”

A few minutes later, Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) blasted Trump for tweeting about Chicago instead of taking action.

Yet again, I urge the Pres to stop tweeting&provide critical fed resources for econ development, mentoring&jobs to address Chicago violence https://t.co/YivjoX2Yjk — Senator Dick Durbin (@SenatorDurbin) February 24, 2017

Trump tweeted last month that he would “send in the feds” if Chicago didn’t “fix the horrible ‘carnage.’” The city’s mayor, Rahm Emanuel, responded by saying he would welcome the help.

“Send more FBI, DEA, ATF agents,” Emanuel said during a news conference earlier this month. “We don’t have to talk about it anymore. Just send them.”

As crime continues to drop across most of the country, 2016 was Chicago’s deadliest year in nearly two decades. The city’s murder rate is now higher than those of Los Angeles and New York combined. Police officials point to gang-related shootings and ease of access to illegal firearms as the main culprits behind Chicago’s homicide problem.

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment regarding Trump’s plan to reduce violence in Chicago.President Donald Trump’s administration says its ethics rules require Gary Cohn, the director of Trump’s National Economic Council, to recuse himself from changing derivatives rules he lobbied on while working at Goldman Sachs.

But Cohn can work on gutting financial regulation in other ways, because slashing bank rules doesn’t directly involve Goldman Sachs, a White House spokesperson told The Huffington Post.

“Throughout his entire tenure in the Trump Administration, Gary has been recused from taking action in matters in which Goldman Sachs is a direct party,” the spokesperson said in an email.

Goldman stock is up 38 percent since the election, hitting record highs as investors bet that the Trump administration will slash both corporate taxes and bank regulations put in place since the 2008 financial crisis.

The White House first said Cohn would recuse himself from Goldman matters when the Financial Times’ Barney Jopson and Ben McLannahan reported on Thursday that Cohn met with officials at the Commodities Future Trading Commission in 2015 and 2016 ― when he worked at Goldman Sachs ― to lobby the regulator about derivatives rules. Those rules are part of the 2010 financial reform law known as Dodd-Frank. Cohn, who now holds a key position in the Trump administration, is leading the White House’s efforts to roll back critical portions of Dodd-Frank.

The White House spokesperson did not respond to a HuffPost question about what other matters Cohn has recused himself from, besides the CFTC derivatives rules.

Cohn worked at Goldman Sachs for 26 years. He was the company’s second most senior executive since 2010, and was its president and chief operating officer for a decade.

As director of the National Economic Council, Cohn is the second most important financial policy adviser after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. Mnuchin is also a former Goldman Sachs executive, who, like his father before him, became a partner at the bank. Mnuchin left the company in 2002 and went on to found a hedge fund and run OneWest Bank, which foreclosed on tens of thousands of homeowners during the housing crisis.

Cohn is driving Trump’s attempt to undo bank regulation and is leading efforts to craft a corporate tax cut. He was also at Trump’s side earlier this month as the president signed an executive order telling agencies to review Dodd-Frank.

While the order was largely symbolic, its meaning was clear: Wall Street is now operating with a presidential permission slip. Financial deregulation is one of Trump’s priorities, and his advisers will make it happen, either by rewriting rules or simply failing to enforce existing ones.

Trump also signed an executive order that will likely nullify a rule ― one that had never actually been implemented ― requiring brokers to act in the best interests of retirement savers.

Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) sent letters on Feb. 9 to Cohn, Goldman Sachs and the Department of Labor, the agency that wrote the retirement rule, asking if the bank had any contact with Cohn regarding the executive orders. Goldman’s general counsel Greg Palm responded on Wednesday, telling the senators that “we had no involvement in the drafting of any executive orders, nor did we receive any advance notice of their issuance.”When a constituent confronted Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) Thursday about why he wasn’t holding a town hall event during this week’s congressional recess, Rubio gave what seemed an honest answer.

“I don’t know man, because town halls, people get rude and stupid ― on both sides,” the senator told the man.

A community organizer for the Florida chapter of the Service Employees International Union tweeted a video of the encounter, which happened in a lecture hall at Florida International University, where Rubio teaches a class. The questioner appears to be Rafael Velasquez, a member of the Florida Democratic party’s board of trustees.

We finally caught up with Senator Marco Rubio at @FIU. He told us that he won't host a townhall because people act "rude and stupid." pic.twitter.com/DrefDkvrFD — Tomas Kennedy (@Tomaskenn) February 23, 2017

The senator is one of several Republican members of Congress struggling with angry constituents as lawmakers take a break from Washington, D.C. Instead of getting yelled at for working with President Donald Trump to repeal Obamacare, Rubio and many other Republicans decided not to hold any public forums.

Rubio’s constituents held a town hall on his behalf Thursday night, with an empty suit standing in for the senator. One woman pleaded with the suit not to repeal Obamacare, since doing so would leave her uninsured, unable to afford her medication, and then confined to a wheelchair and unemployed.

The man confronting Rubio earlier on Thursday suggested a town hall would allow the senator to hear from the people his represents, but Rubio said he didn’t need to.After much pressure, President Donald Trump finally conceded this week that the rise in anti-Semitism around the country “has to stop.” But some American Muslims are wondering ― does the president have our back, too?

This Islamophobia is nothing new. Last year, The Huffington Post tracked 385 anti-Muslim acts in the United States, ranging from verbal harassment to physical abuse.

But Trump and his administration has had very little to say that would reassure America’s 3.3 million Muslims that their leaders, institutions, and sacred spaces are safe.

Corey Saylor, a leader at the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said that this organization is waiting on Trump to speak out, after a significant rise in anti-Muslim incidents over the past year.

“It is [Trump’s] duty to repudiate bias. President Bush went to a mosque to push back against anti-Islam sentiment in 2001,” Saylor told HuffPost in an email. “We are still waiting for President Trump to demonstrate the same leadership.”

Carlo Allegri / Reuters People take part in a rally called "I am Muslim Too" in Times Square Manhattan, New York City, on Feb. 19.

Trump’s inability to understand the fears and concerns of American Muslims was apparent even before he won the election. During a presidential debate, when an American Muslim asked him directly how he would combat Islamophobia, he turned the question into an opportunity to rant about “radical Islamic terrorism” ― glazing over the woman’s concerns about anti-Muslim bigotry.

This week, American Muslims saw that attitude reappear in the White House. A reporter asked White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer about the rise in anti-Muslim hate groups during a press conference this week. But Spicer dodged the question, speaking instead about “radical Islamic terrorism.” Like his boss, he ignored the fact that Islamophobic groups are fueling hatred and even calling for violence against American citizens.

Catherine Orsborn is the campaign director of Shoulder to Shoulder, an interfaith organization dedicated to ending anti-Muslim bigotry. She told HuffPost that it’s clear from Spicer’s comments that there is a “there is a huge disconnect between what our fellow Americans are facing, in terms of anti-Muslim hate incidents, and how the administration is thinking about these issues.”

“They’re not demonstrating any level of concern for American Muslims to live in peace and security,” Orsborn said. “And we need our government to not only speak out against attacks on Muslims, but also show by their actions they they do indeed respect the rights and freedoms of American Muslims as part of the fabric of our country.”

Carlo Allegri / Reuters A man dressed as Trump takes part in the "I am Muslim Too" rally in Times Square.

At the same time, anti-Semitism has also been on the rise. The Anti-Defamation League has recorded a troubling rise in hate speech against Jewish journalists online. After the election, several schools and universities reported anti-Semitic vandalism on their campuses. And since Jan. 9, at least 69 bomb threats have been called into 55 Jewish Community Centers across the country. While no bombs were recovered from these locations, the repeated phone threats have caused fear and aggravation in the Jewish community.

Rabiah Ahmed, communications director of the Muslim Public Affairs Council, told HuffPost that she holds Trump and his administration accountable for the increase in hate crimes against Jews, Muslims, and other minorities.

“It is their divisive rhetoric that has emboldened many to act out on their biases and feel justified in doing so,” Ahmed wrote in an email. “And it is their responsibility to undo this increasing tide of hate that we are witnessing.”

The Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect is one of the Jewish organizations that have been calling for the administration to speak out on the rise of anti-Semitism in the country. The center called Trump’s statement against anti-Semitism a “pathetic asterisk of condescension.”

Just as we saw the President denounce anti-Semitism earlier this week, albeit far overdue, we demand and expect the same be stated when it comes to anti-Muslim bigotry. Rabbi Jonah Dov Pesner

And like CAIR, the center is also waiting for Trump to speak out against the abuse that Muslims have had to face.

“The President’s Islamophobia, marked by his repeated phony portrayals of Muslims as more prone to terrorism than others, is responsible for creating the incubator of hate that foments the crimes we are seeing against Muslims in America today,” executive director Steven Goldstein told HuffPost.

Goldstein said that he was “devastated”, but not surprised, by the President’s silence in condemning anti-Muslim attacks. He called it the silence a “double-barreled danger” to Jews and Muslims.

“We have no pecking order in which we fight Antisemitism first, and Islamophobia and other hatred second,” he said. “We have to save every Anne. Never again must mean never again to anyone. Never again is now.”

Rabbi Jonah Dov Pesner, Director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, also called out Trump’s silence on anti-Muslim bigotry.

“Just as we saw the President denounce anti-Semitism earlier this week, albeit far overdue, we demand and expect the same be stated when it comes to anti-Muslim bigotry,” Pesner told HuffPost.

Orbsorn said that while a condemnation of Islamophobia is critical, interfaith activists like her need to see “more than words.”The son of the late boxing great Muhammad Ali was detained at a Florida airport this month and asked about his religious preferences, a family friend says.

Muhammad Ali Jr., 44, was returning to the U.S. from Jamaica with his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali, when customs pulled them aside at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on Feb. 7 for questioning, Chris Mancini, a family friend and lawyer, told the Courier-Journal Friday.

Customs officials let Camacho-Ali proceed once she produced a photo of herself with her former husband Muhammad Ali, but since Ali Jr. did not have such a photo, they detained him for almost two hours. During his detention, he says officials asked him questions like “Where did you get your name from?” and “Are you Muslim?”

Ali Jr., who like his late father is Muslim, is an American citizen with no criminal record. He was carrying a U.S. passport with him at the time of his detention.

“This is an outrage,” said Mancini, who is a former federal prosecutor. “I don’t know what is going on with Mr. Trump’s claim that his ban is not religion-based. We do not discriminate in this country based on religion.”

Muhammad Ali's son was questioned twice about his religion, and then held for at about two hours at #FLL. https://t.co/y7SBEBQq49 — Miami New Times (@MiamiNewTimes) February 24, 2017

“What right does the United States have to inquire about somebody’s religion when they enter the country?” Mancini said. “This is an instance where the ban has been enforced even though it has been thrown out. The government is still trying to find grounds to keep Muslims out.”

Multiple outlets have reached out to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection for comment, which has simply said, “Due to the restrictions of the Privacy Act, U.S. Customs and Border Protection cannot discuss individual travelers; however, all international travelers arriving in the U.S. are subject to CBP inspection.”

The Ali family is considering filing a federal lawsuit.Rep. Leonard Lance (R-N.J.) faced angry questions over his refusal to demand an independent investigation into President Donald Trump’s ties to Russia during a Saturday town hall packed with hundreds of constituents.

Most of a 900-seat auditorium at Raritan Valley Community College was filled on Saturday, according to NJ.com. Lance, the only Republican member of Congress to hold a town hall in the state this week, drew shouting from the audience when he repeatedly declined to support efforts to launch a Russia inquiry.

“At the moment, I favor the investigations that are occurring by the two intelligence committees, the Senate Intelligence Committee and the House Intelligence Committee,” he told the audience.

He said he was encouraged by the fact that Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee, and its Vice Chairman Sen. Mark Warner (D- Va.) had together sent a letter to the White House requesting the it preserve documents regarding possible involvement between the Trump administration or the his presidential campaign and the Russian government.

“It’s my experience that the intelligence committees work in a bipartisan fashion,” Lance added.

His insistence that the House and Senate Intelligence committees would look into the matter prompted audience members to shout, “Read The Washington Post!” On Friday, the Post reported that the White House had asked the chairman of the House and Senate intelligence committee to counter news reports about Trump’s ties to Russia.

One man in the audience asked Lance whether he would sponsor legislation to compel Trump to release his tax returns. When Lance simply said he thought the president should release the documents, the audience began chanting “yes or no!”

Lance eventually said he did not think there should be legislation forcing Trump to release the documents.

“Congressman, we expect you to put your country before your party,” said the man who asked the question also reminding Lance that he was up for re-election next year. Lance is one of several New Jersey Republicans that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is targeting in next year’s cycle.

The crowd also got loud when Lance declined to condemn White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon, who has been accused of anti-Semitism and previously led Breitbart, which gives a platform to white nationalists. Nor did Lance call for the Trump adviser’s removal from the National Security Council.

The congressman said he believed the president could decide whom he wanted to appoint to the NSC and that he trusted H.R. McMaster, the president’s new national security adviser, would give him advice.

“We think you need to lead us, we think you need to decide. We rely on you,” the woman who asked the question said. The crowd also broke into a chant of “renounce Steve Bannon.”

The White House and many Republicans have tried to discredit recent outrage at Republican town halls across the country by claiming the people attending them are professional protesters or paid to heckle. There is no evidence to support that claim, and Lance said at his Saturday town hall that he didn’t think anyone in the audience was paid to be there.

Lance also held a town hall Wednesday, but he scheduled Saturday’s event because demand for another one earlier this week was so high, according to Politico. Constituents at the town hall on Wednesday asked him similar pointed questions.

Protesters also showed up outside Lance’s Saturday town hall.

Protestors line the entrance to Raritan Valley Community College ahead of Rep. Leonard Lance's townhall. That story at 10! @FiOS1NewsNJ pic.twitter.com/uhSRB7i4Y7 — Emily Girsch (@EmilyGirsch) February 25, 2017

The congressman also acknowledged that many Republicans across the country were choosing not to hold town halls this week. One of the ways he believed members could clean up Washington, D.C., was to be given more time to spend in their districts, he said.Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) said during an interview on “Real Time With Bill Maher” on Friday night that the investigation into Russia’s ties to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and the U.S. election hacking needs a special prosecutor ― not Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

The conservative congressman, who supported Trump during his 2016 campaign, also seemed to agree with host Bill Maher that Sessions should recuse himself from the investigation.

Maher posed a question to Issa about the FBI’s investigation Trump-Russia by flipping the controversy on its head.

Maher asked Issa if, in 2012, he “would let it slide” had Russians hacked Mitt Romney’s campaign and been in talks with former President Barack Obama’s campaign.

“No,” Issa said quickly. When asked if he’d let it slide in Trump’s administration, Issa said again, just as quickly: “No.”

“We need an independent prosecutor,” Maher said later. “And Jeff Sessions should recuse himself, the same way Loretta Lynch recused herself, because he was a part of the Trump campaign, is that correct?” Maher asked, referring to former Attorney General Lynch and Hillary Clinton’s email investigation.

That’s when Issa appeared to make his response more clear.

Rep. Darrell Issa appears to tell Bill Maher that Jeff Sessions should recuse himself & special prosecutor statute should be invoked? pic.twitter.com/Gt7zO9AtAV — Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 25, 2017

“You’re right that you cannot have somebody, a friend of mine, Jeff Sessions, who was on the campaign and who was an appointee,” Issa told Maher. “You’re going to need to use the special prosecutor’s statute and office.”

Then, Issa doubles down on his statement with a critical take on Russia.

“Here’s the reason we’re going to have to do it, Bill,” the congressman said. “There may or may not be fault, but the American people are beginning to understand that Putin murders his enemies sometimes right in front of the Kremlin ... he’s murdered people and taken down using cyber warfare in Georgia and Ukraine.

“This is a bad guy who murders people. Who runs a gas station with an economy the size of Italy but is screwing up things all over the world, that we’ve been, quote, ‘working with.’

“Now, we have to work with them. We don’t have to trust them. And we need to investigate their activities, and we need to do it because they are bad people.”President Donald Trump’s counselor Kellyanne Conway should face sanctions for “professional misconduct,” which include repeated lies and ethics breaches, according to a formal complaint filed by 15 law professors across the nation.

“We do not file this complaint lightly,” states the letter, which legal ethics professors from leading universities such as Yale, Georgetown, Fordham and Duke filed this week. “We believe that, at one time, Ms. Conway understood her ethical responsibilities as a lawyer and abided by them. But she is currently behaving in a way that brings shame upon the legal profession.”

Conway obtained a law degree from George Washington University Law School. She was admitted to the Washington, D.C., bar in 1995, though she is currently suspended for nonpayment of dues, according to the complaint.

The letter, which The Washington Post obtained, was sent to the Washington, D.C., Office of Disciplinary Counsel of the Board of Professional Responsibility, which addresses complaints about members of the local bar.

The letter lists Conway’s lies, including those about the non-existent “Bowling Green Massacre” to justify Trump’s ban against travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Not only was there no massacre, but “Ms. Conway knew there was no massacre,” the filing states.

The complaint also upbraids Conway’s touting of “alternative facts” — which are “not facts at all; they are lies,” the letter notes.

Finally, Conway’s touting of products sold by the president’s daughter Ivanka Trump on national TV were a “clear violation of government ethics rules, which a lawyer and a member of the bar should surely know,” the document states.

The complaint concludes that Conway’s “conduct, clearly violative of the rules that regulate her professional status, cries out for sanctioning” by the bar.ATLANTA ― If you’re just paying attention now to the race to chair the Democratic National Committee, you could be forgiven for thinking it is an election for a much bigger office.

The race that has lasted well over three months is finally coming to a close on Saturday. The candidates have participated in more than half a dozen public forums or televised debates.

And the two top contenders, Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison and former Labor Secretary Tom Perez, each raised nearly $1 million as of the beginning of the month.

The Democrats’ trouncing at the polls in November meant it was likely that the DNC chair race would be more hotly contested than normal.

But this year’s contest has also attracted inordinate attention and resources because it is widely viewed as a proxy battle between the Democratic establishment and the party’s progressive wing. Perez, who backed Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton during the 2016 primary, has gained more traction among establishment figures. Ellison, a supporter of rival presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), has won the enthusiasm of progressive activists.

The trouble for some of Ellison’s supporters in particular is that many of the 442 DNC members eligible to vote in the contest just don’t see it that way.

Missouri DNC member Brian Wahby endorsed Perez on Friday because of Perez’s “experience managing large organizations.”

“He has a good track record of turning around large organizations and it’s part of what we need,” added Iowa DNC member Andrea Philips in explaining her support for Perez.

Wahby endorsed Clinton early on in the primary; Philips caucused for her in Iowa.

Philips rejected the idea that the race was anything but a choice between people with nearly identical progressive credentials.

“I find it discouraging when experience is considered a negative mark against a person. He’s a progressive fighter,” she said.

Alex Wong/Getty Images Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) has the support of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) in his bid to become Democratic National Committee chair. Many voting DNC members couldn't care less.

Indeed, Perez has elicited widespread progressive praise for expanding overtime pay for workers, improving police accountability, and fighting for immigrant rights, among other accomplishments. He has a stellar liberal record. His detractors mainly point to his support for the now-defunct Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement and an unwillingness to prosecute bankers while running the Department of Justice’s civil rights division.

Given his similarity to Ellison on policy, however, some analysts have argued that party officials should pick the Minnesota congressman to ensure the progressive activists excited about his candidacy ― and Sanders’ bid before that ― remain active in the party, rather than taking their enthusiasm elsewhere. And several prominent Ellison supporters have lamented the way aides to former President Barack Obama reportedly encouraged Perez to run after Ellison won the blessing of Sanders and establishment leaders like Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.).

Some DNC members, however, resent the notion that they should be accommodating Sanders backers on the fence about remaining active in the party. Alabama DNC members Clinton Daughtrey and Janet May, both of whom backed Clinton in the primary, said on Friday that they were undecided on who to pick for DNC chair.

One thing they were sure of was that they would not under any circumstances base their decisions on concerns about people who backed Sanders.

“If I turned on C-Span two years ago and Senator Sanders was there, on the chyron in parentheses would be ‘I-Vt.’ If I turned on C-Span last year, the chyron would say ‘I-Vt.’ If I turned it on today, it would say ‘I-Vt.,’” Daughtrey said. “Thus, I want everybody in the tent. We want as many people engaged as possible in the Democratic Party, but if they do not want to identify as Democrats and build up the Democratic Party, then we’re no better than the cult of personality on the other side.”

“Well said,”May chimed in. “I couldn’t say it any better.”

DNC members’ most common response to questions about divisions within the party is that resistance to President Donald Trump will inevitably unify the warring factions.

“We have a fight on our hands. It is not between Ellison and Perez,” Philips said.

While DNC members are not interested in letting Ellison backers turn the DNC race into a more victorious version of Sanders’ primary challenge, they are extremely eager to link arms with the grassroots movement that has sprung up to oppose Trump. On Friday afternoon, a panel discussion of nine progressive leaders and political entrepreneurs convened by DNC vice chair candidate Liz Jaff was packed to the brim with DNC voting members begging the panelists for advice on how to tap into, and support, their work.

One of the panelists, Winnie Wong, a co-founder of the People for Bernie Sanders collective, who helped write the principles of the Women’s March on Washington in January, is backing Ellison in the DNC chair race.

But bringing grassroots activism under the party umbrella is not simply a matter of offering to collaborate in anti-Trump activities, Wong warned. If the DNC members are to succeed in harnessing the grassroots energy, she said, they cannot ignore the proxy race narrative that the public has developed about the contest for the DNC chairmanship.

“The public opinion is already in place. There is a public opinion that frames one candidate as the establishment candidate and the other candidate as a candidate of the people,” Wong said, referring to Perez and Ellison respectively.ATLANTA ― Democratic National Committee members on Saturday voted down a resolution that would have reinstated former President Barack Obama’s ban on corporate political action committee donations to the party.

Resolution 33, introduced by DNC Vice Chair Christine Pelosi, would also have forbidden “registered, federal corporate lobbyists” from serving as “DNC chair-appointed, at-large members.”

A majority of the 442 eligible DNC members rejected the resolution after roughly a dozen members rose to speak for and against it. Supporters of DNC chair candidate Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) could be heard cheering loudly during arguments in favor of the resolution from their seats in the section of the auditorium open to the public.

The resolution will now go to the DNC’s smaller executive committee for consideration.

Obama, as the party’s presidential nominee in 2008, banned contributions from political action committees, as well as from lobbyists. Former DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz quietly lifted the ban ahead of the 2016 election.

Bob Mulholland, DNC member from Chico, California, was one of the bill’s most vocal opponents and helped lead a successful effort to table the resolution for further review on Friday. He argued that the ban would handicap Democrats at a time when they need all the resources they can muster.

“Just a reminder that Republicans control all three branches of the government right now ― all three branches. We do not have a president in the White House,” Mulholland said. “I am not a member of Mother Theresa’s sisters organization; I am a member of the Democratic Party.”

New York DNC Member Stuart Appelbaum, a co-sponsor of the resolution, insisted that it was crucial for voters to believe the DNC is accountable to them, not corporate interests.

“This resolution provides us an important opportunity to send a message to the people of this country as to our values,” said Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union.

“It is not something new: We operated this way for seven years!” Appelbaum added, referring to the Obama-era ban.

Resolution 33 appears to be narrower than the ban on contributions from lobbyists and PACs imposed by Obama, explicitly banning donations only from corporate PACs.

Ellison told HuffPost in January that he would reinstate Obama’s ban on lobbyist donations. He subsequently walked back the promise, vowing only to make sure the measure was seconded and debated by the DNC’s executive committee.

His chief opponent, former Labor Secretary Tom Perez, declined to say whether he supports the idea of such a ban.A pair of progressive moles with a sense of humor were apparently responsible for a grand — although short-lived — prank at the Conservative Political Action Conference that had members proudly waving tiny banners emblazoned with the name “Trump” that were actually Russian flags.

The flag tricksters identified themselves as Jason Charter and Ryan Clayton with the self-described “resistance” group Americans Take Action. They purchased tickets to the conference shortly before Trump was to take the podium and handed out the flags, Charter told The Huffington Post.

Charter, 22, said that the gag was intended to mock Trump’s admiration of Russian President Vladimir Putin and highlight concerns about Trump administration ties to Russia. “Donald Trump is selling out the U.S.,” he said.

The prank went surprisingly smoothly, he added. “I asked people if they wanted a Trump flag and they took it,” Charter said. “There were only about five people who said, ‘Wait a minute, this is the Russian flag.’”

Activists prank CPAC attendees into waving Russian flags at Trump https://t.co/RRzCRhnHGK pic.twitter.com/xmEGEHwuOt — Talking Points Memo (@TPM) February 24, 2017

Politico’s Tim Alberta tweeted that the crowd “gave no thought” to the Russian flag. They just saw “red, white & blue” with Trump printed on it.

They saw red, white & blue - with "TRUMP" stamped across it - and started to wave them. Gave no thought to Russian flag, they all said. 2/2 — Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) February 24, 2017

Charter said that pranks can be “fun and still effective in shedding light on a serious situation.” He said Americans Take Action has several other events planned. “I, of course, can’t go into details, but we’re not stopping until Donald Trump is impeached.”

Clayton, 36, using a mock Russian accent in an interview with Atlantic, called the prank a “true-flag” operation. “It show how Trump and Russia are so connected, they like peas in pod,” he said.

Trump's #CPAC Speech:



An abject nightmare come-to-life where Americans proudly wave Russian flags pic.twitter.com/tlC4i8RcQt — LiNCOLN PARK (@linc0lnpark) February 24, 2017

Someone handed out Trump Russian flags on the #CPAC2017 floor before Trump's speech pic.twitter.com/uf1ADMt6ZL — Taylor Lorenz (@TaylorLorenz) February 24, 2017

This is not a joke: Trump's CPAC flags look EXACTLY like little Russian flags. 🇷🇺



Coincidence? pic.twitter.com/I2IapEEXej — Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) February 24, 2017

Do these people even realize they are cheering another country? Make America Russian? https://t.co/TzfRIUhGLj — Terry Kalb (@teka21bat) February 24, 2017

A section of people in the back of #CPAC2017 waving Russian flags -- a staffer just came and demanded they all be handed over. pic.twitter.com/mZVoVUqudn — Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) February 24, 2017

CPAC organizers finally got a clue and quickly collected the flags, and warned that anyone who continued to wave or hold one would be ejected, The Hill reported. But some wanted to save the flags as souvenirs.

Organizers confiscating the flags and threatening anyone caught holding one 🇷🇺 https://t.co/swfMYsYCKu #CPAC2017 pic.twitter.com/PCYfBCi3d3 — Taylor Lorenz (@TaylorLorenz) February 24, 2017Something is happening in Saudi Arabia. The country is undergoing real change. Many commentators have written about it, but in some instances their observations have been based on a one-off visit comparing what they’ve just seen with the biases they’ve learned—without context or history.

I am by no means an expert on Saudi Arabia, but as someone who has visited the country over four dozen times in the past four decades and who has been able to conduct polling across the Kingdom for the past decade and a half, I want to share some conclusions from my just completed visit as well as some of my most recent public opinion polls.

In a real sense, Saudi Arabia is a new country that has always been changing. In the early 1950’s, for example, the population of Riyadh, the capitol, was in the tens of thousands. By 1980, when I made my first visit, it had grown to one million. Today Greater Riyadh is approaching seven million souls. There have been times when the city looked like a massive construction site with buildings or other infrastructure projects going up everywhere. Saudis have joked that their national bird was the crane.

Rapid urbanization came with a price. As rural people flooded into newly expanded urban areas, many experienced culture shock feeling a need to cling to the purity of the “old ways”—a not unexpected response.

With each passing year subtle but real changes have occurred. Some were the result of the tens of thousands of Saudis who studied abroad; others flowed from the transformations in daily life and social and economic relations that resulted from urbanization; still others reflected the impact globalization especially on Saudi youth. In any case, today’s Saudi Arabia is not the one I first visited a generation ago, with many Saudis living lives and connecting to the outside world in ways unimaginable to their grandparents. Traditions, however, remain and this is enough for some in the West to dismiss the country’s culture as frozen. It appears that if change doesn’t come at our pace, dressed in Western garb, and isn’t done “our way”—it’s not real change.

But even beyond this slow and steady evolution there is something new and significant taking place in the Kingdom. There is today a conscious and deliberate effort by Saudi leadership to speed up this process of transforming their society and to challenge some elements of the traditional culture that stand in the way of moving the country forward. Some of the impetus behind this effort is, no doubt, due to the need to move beyond dependence on oil revenues and government subsidized employment. Another important factor is the coming of age of a new generation of leaders who want to modernize their country, but to do so while being respectful of its traditions. Threading this needle is important since a significant segment of the population remains conservative and the young leadership is not inclined to totally upend the social order creating disruptive instability.

Today’s Saudi Arabia is not the one I first visited a generation ago, with many Saudis living lives and connecting to the outside world in ways unimaginable to their grandparents.

As part of this national effort at social and economic transformation, the number of Saudis studying abroad has increased to over two hundred thousand youngsters from all segments of Saudi society and all parts of the country. There are currently more women than men in college and women graduates are entering the workplace in ever increasing numbers. There has been a determined effort, working with international specialists, to modernize the education curriculum with changes on every level. On my most recent visit to Saudi Arabia, I received a briefing at the Ministry of Education, I was struck by: reforms in early childhood and elementary education; the new emphasis being given to math and science; the training programs that have been developed for teachers and aides preparing them to mainstream children with disabilities; and efforts to provide online and interactive educational opportunities for Saudis of all ages. These changes combined will no doubt produce even greater transformations in the years to come.

But what do Saudis think of their country and their own personal circumstances in this evolving social reality. There are dissidents, to be sure, both those who say change is not coming fast enough and those disgruntled souls who are repulsed by modernity and who condemn any threats to the old order. This is to be expected in any society experiencing change. But what our polling shows is that most Saudis are quite satisfied with their lives and are optimistic about the future. In a “quality of life” survey we conducted a few years ago in 22 countries, Saudi Arabia scored quite well—higher than the United States and most Western countries. More recent polling, since the launching of the national transformation program, have shown dramatic increases in both optimism and satisfaction ratings. There are concerns, to be sure, but on the whole, men and women, young and old, educated and less educated alike give life in their country good grades and have high expectation for the future. This confounds some American observers because they can only see Saudi Arabia through their own eyes, without paying attention to how the majority of Saudis see their own reality.

As ambitious and promising as the national transformation program is, it is also a risky undertaking. On the one hand, there are the expectations that promised change has created. This must be weighed against the backlash of Saudi conservatives who are already expressing concern with this orchestrated movement toward modernizing their society. I referred to it as “threading a needle” and it surely is.

Then there is the impact of the disastrous and costly war in Yemen. Saudi Arabia is deeply troubled by Iran’s aggressive ambitions and concerned with the destabilization of their southern neighbor. But their efforts to restore the legitimate government of Yemen that was deposed by an Iranian-backed movement, have not been successful. Reports of heavy civilian casualties have taken a horrific human toll on Yemenis and have contributed to tarnishing Saudi Arabia’s image in the West. And then there’s the cost—especially given declining oil revenues and the price tag associated with the national transformation effort.

Only a hardened cynic or a dyed-in-the-wool bigot would want to see the Saudi national transformation program fail. At the same time, it would naïve to assume that the coast is clear and all will inevitably work out in the end. Success is not assured, real problems remain and there will serious challenges in the future. But it should recognized that Saudis have taken their future in their own hands and are making change their way. They should be supported.The Department of Homeland Security at the last minute has decided to bar a young Syrian cinematographer from entering the U.S. to attend The Oscars Sunday. The civil-war documentary he risked his life to work on has been nominated for an award.

Khaled Khatib, 21, had obtained a visa and was due to fly to Los Angeles via Istanbul Saturday. But U.S. officials suddenly said they’d found unspecified “derogatory information” linked to Khatib, The Associated Press reported Saturday. Khatib was detained in Turkey, and he now needs a passport waiver to enter the U.S., which he will not be able to obtain, according to internal Trump administration documents seen by the AP. “Derogatory information” is a broad category that can be something serious to passport irregularities. It’s not clear why Khatib was detained in Turkey.

Khatib was a cinematographer on the 40-minute Netflix documentary “White Helmets,” which has been nominated for Best Documentary, Short Subject. It follows rescue workers for the Syrian Civil Defense White Helmets, who have saved tens of thousands of lives during the nation’s bloody civil war. The group was founded in 2012 after a Syrian Air Force attack on civilians. It was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize in 2016. Khatib, who started filming the workers when he was just 16, is also a volunteer with the group.

Some 120 White Helmets have been killed in recent years, including Khaled Omar, known as the “miracle baby rescuer” in Aleppo, after pulling an infant out alive from the rubble of the baby’s home in 2014. Omar was killed in an airstrike in 2016.

“White Helmets” director Orlando von Einsiedel had made a plea to the U.S. to allow those who had worked on and been featured in the film to attend the Oscars. The experience would not only be rewarding for them, he said, but with the world “so divided we could all learn from the White Helmets’ message od compassion and dignity.” After a court halted President Donald Trump’s travel ban, the filmmakers revived plans to bring Khatib and White Helmets leader Raed Saleh to Los Angeles.

Saleh will also not be attending now because of the demand of work in Syria.

Regretfully we won't be at the OSCARS due to intensity of work, our priority continues to be helping civilians & rescue operations in #Syria — Raed Al Saleh (@RaedAlSaleh3) February 24, 2017

Iranian filmmaker Asghar Farhadi, whose movie “The Salesman” is up for Best Foreign Language Film, said last month that he would not attend the awards ceremony because of Trump’s controversial ban.

But Farhadi and the directors of the other four movies in the foreign language category issued an angry statement on Friday blasting America’s “climate of fanaticism and nationalism.” It’s unlikely the directors yet had word that Khatib would not be allowed to attend the Oscars.

“The fear generated by dividing us into genders, colors, religions and sexualities as a means to justify violence destroys the things that we depend on — not only as artists but as humans: the diversity of cultures, the chance to be enriched by something seemingly ‘foreign’ and the belief that human encounters can change us for the better,” their statement reads

“These divisive walls prevent people from experiencing something simple but fundamental: from discovering that we are all not so different.”

Regardless of “who wins the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film on Sunday, we refuse to think in terms of borders,” they wrote. “We believe there is no best country, best gender, best religion or best color. We want this award to stand as a symbol of the unity between nations and the freedom of the arts. Human rights are not something you have to apply for. They simply exist — for everybody.”

Khatib was looking forward to traveling to the Oscars. “If we win this award, it will show people across Syria that people around the world support them,” he said when he announced his plans to attend this month. “It will give courage to every volunteer who wakes up every morning to run towards bombs.”WASHINGTON ― A draft version of a House Republican bill to repeal and “replace” the Affordable Care Act shows how the move would weaken or eliminate coverage for an untold number of people on Medicaid and private health insurance.

House Republicans, led by Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), appear to be putting the finishing touches on the legislative vehicle with which they intend to eliminate former President Barack Obama’s signature health care law and put in place a new system ― one that would provide significantly less funding for people seeking health benefits and for states providing Medicaid coverage. Ryan has said that he hopes the House can begin advancing legislation when it comes back from recess next week.

The draft bill, first reported by Politico’s Paul Demko, carries a Feb. 10 timestamp, and Republicans may have revised their proposal since then. The text does not indicate which lawmakers or committees are responsible for it, and there is a blank space where normally the legislation would include the bill’s title.

But the draft is consistent with the principles Ryan laid out in his “A Better Way” agenda over the summer, and the basic shape of legislation closely resembles a bill that Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price introduced when he served in the House.

Like those proposals, the draft legislation would generally reduce financial assistance for lower- and middle-income people buying private health insurance. It would also weaken standards for what those plans cover, roll back funding for the Medicaid expansion and create a new tax on employer-provided health insurance.

Taxes on wealthy people would fall, and the law’s controversial individual mandate ― a penalty for people who don’t get coverage ― would go away immediately, although most parts of the law with direct bearing on insurance coverage would not take effect until 2020.

Without a formal analysis from the Congressional Budget Office ― and without careful study by outside experts, most of whom hadn’t seen the legislation until Friday ― it’s difficult to say exactly how the law might affect premiums, generosity of coverage, the federal budget or the overall number of people with insurance.

Some people would clearly feel better off. Young people, for instance, could buy cheaper insurance ― particularly if they were willing to get less comprehensive coverage than the law currently requires.

But the number of uninsured Americans, currently at a historic low thanks to the 2010 law, would almost certainly rise if something like this proposal became law. Combined with changes to insurance benefits, the net result of the bill’s changes would likely be dramatically greater exposure to punishing medical bills and reduced access to care ― particularly for people who have serious health problems or who aren’t entirely able to pay for comprehensive coverage on their own.

This may not be what most people thought when they heard President Donald Trump’s promise that “everybody’s going to be taken care of much better than they’re taken care of now.”

Of course, with Republicans still deeply divided on how to proceed, this proposal would be just an opening bid. Some conservatives in the House and Senate don’t even want to replace the Affordable Care Act, while another, larger faction objects to providing financial assistance at all and has sneered at proposals that include tax credits, calling them “Obamacare-lite.”

The Senate, for its part, has made no apparent progress on health care legislation and isn’t expected to simply accept what the House proposes.

The Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion poses more of a problem for the repeal effort in the Senate, as well. Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), for example, has already said she can’t support a bill that would cut funding for her state’s Medicaid expansion, while conservatives like Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) say they won’t support a bill that doesn’t end the expansion.

All of this is taking place in a political environment increasingly hostile for Republicans. Angry constituents are flooding lawmakers’ town halls demanding more details about the “replacement” plan, while polling shows a marked upswing in public approval for the Affordable Care Act and a notable decline in support for repeal.

Here are some of the biggest changes that would take place if something like the House GOP draft bill were to become law:

Help paying for health insurance

Financial assistance for people buying coverage would change dramatically. Instead of tax credits that vary based on income, people would be eligible for tax credits that vary based on age, with older customers getting bigger credits.

This would work out as a nice tax break for people whose incomes, today, qualify them for only a little assistance or none at all. But it means that working- and middle-class people would tend to lose assistance that currently makes it possible for them to buy coverage in the first place.

Critically, the GOP proposal would also eliminate extra subsidies, available under the Affordable Care Act, that reduce out-of-pocket expenses for people whose incomes are below 250 percent of the poverty line, or about $60,000 for a family of four.

Younger versus older people

The Affordable Care Act doesn’t allow health insurance companies to charge older people more than three times the price for a younger adult. The House GOP plan would increase that limit to five times, although states would have flexibility to set their own rules. This might mean lower premiums for some younger consumers, but older people could pay considerably more.

Health insurance benefits

Under the Affordable Care Act, all private plans must cover a variety of benefits, including hospitalizations, prescription drugs, contraception, mental health and maternity. Under the House GOP bill, states would be permitted to establish whatever “essential benefits” they wanted, and leave out the rest.

The bill also includes a clause that would allow insurers to continue offering “grandfathered” plans, which are exempt from the Affordable Care Act’s standards for benefits and pricing because insurers were selling them before the law took effect. It’s not clear whether these plans would be available to people not already enrolled in them. If they are, that could undermine other regulations on insurance.

Pre-existing conditions and the individual mandate

Insurers today cannot deny coverage or charge higher premiums because of health status, as long as people sign up during annual open enrollment or qualify for an exemption for a reason like a move or a new job. But under this proposal, insurers could increase premiums by 30 percent, for up to a year, on people who do not maintain “continuous coverage,” meaning that they let their coverage lapse for more than two months. This would have the biggest effect on lower-income people and people juggling jobs ― particularly because, under the GOP proposal, they would be getting less financial aid from the government.

The proposal would also eliminate the individual mandate. The mandate exists to make sure healthy people buy coverage, rather than waiting until they get sick. The continuous coverage provision is supposed to serve the same function, but many experts believe it is not as effective.

Medicaid funding

House Republicans propose repealing the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion by eliminating the additional federal funding for it. The federal government and states jointly finance Medicaid, and states historically paid 25 percent to 50 percent of the costs, but the Affordable Care Act provided at least 90 percent of the funding for the expansion population. This draft bill would reduce it to the share paid for other Medicaid beneficiaries.

The bill also calls for a far more radical change to Medicaid. Since its inception in 1965, Medicaid has been a federal entitlement like Medicare and Social Security, so the government has been obligated to cover the costs of any eligible person without limit. House Republicans want to eliminate this entitlement status and instead send states a flat sum ― known as a per-capita cap ― per enrollee.

This would leave states on the hook for any costs above that amount, which would be smaller than federal funding today. That would likely lead states to remove people from the rolls, trim benefits and/or cut payment rates to medical providers, reducing coverage and access to care.

High-risk pools

In an attempt to make up for scrapping the Affordable Care Act’s guarantee of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, the House Republican bill would set aside $100 billion over a decade to finance state programs that would cover people with the highest medical costs.

This could take the form of high-risk pools, which is a reform Republicans have long favored. Prior to the ACA making them obsolete, these high-risk pools existed in a majority of states, dating back to the 1970s. Inadequate funding, high premiums and lengthy waiting lists meant only a tiny percentage of people otherwise uninsurable had access to this coverage.

The proposed $100 billion investment would be substantially more than what previous proposals, such as Price’s, allocated. But even so, the investment would probably fall far short of providing coverage for all the people who need it. Both liberal and conservative health experts have speculated that high-risk pools really need more like $150 billion to $250 billion over that time period.

Paying for the plan

The proposal would wipe out much of the Affordable Care Act’s funding, including new payroll taxes that fall exclusively on the very wealthiest Americans. To make up for some of that loss, the bill would start subjecting a portion of the most generous health plans to taxes. Today the premiums for employer-sponsored insurance do not count toward taxes, so this would effectively be a new tax on the most expensive insurance policies, which many middle-class people hold.

Economists across the political spectrum have long called for such a change, and the Affordable Care Act actually has a version of this proposal, known as the “Cadillac tax.” But the idea of taxing health benefits is highly unpopular, which is one reason Congress voted two years ago to postpone introduction of the Cadillac tax.

* * *

One question looming over all of this is how these features could become law. In order to advance legislation in the Senate, where it would normally take 60 votes to overcome a Democratic filibuster, Republicans hope to use the budget reconciliation process, in which a simple majority can pass a bill.

But reconciliation rules prohibit consideration of changes that don’t directly affect the federal budget, and some of the changes in the draft bill ― like those affecting insurance regulations ― might not pass muster with the Senate parliamentarian, an adviser to the Senate who interprets those rules.SAN FRANCISCO ― Protesters upset with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) for not hosting a public town hall meeting during this week’s congressional recess demonstrated at her appearance at the Public Policy Institute of California on Friday, pressing the longtime senator to face her constituents in person.

The event, billed as “a conversation” with Feinstein, was open to the public, but tickets were lapped up quickly due to the relatively small venue. Demonstrators, many on their lunch breaks, gathered outside the PPIC offices in San Francisco’s Financial District, demanding the senator host a larger meeting with her constituents. Some protesters held signs with question marks, symbolizing the queries they have for the senator.

“It’d be really great if we had the chance to sit down at a town hall environment and talk with [Feinstein] about all the concerns we have about the current administration, and we haven’t been given that opportunity,” said Elizabeth Hall of San Francisco, one of several dozen people who came to protest outside the event. “So I felt compelled to come out here and make sure that she knows we want to talk to her, and that we’re ready to talk to her.”

Mollie Reilly Feinstein's constituents are demanding that she hold more town halls to hear from those she represents.

Inside the event, some attendees tried their best to create a raucous town hall-style atmosphere. Some held up green sheets of paper when they agreed with Feinstein’s remarks, and red sheets when they disagreed. The audience alternately cheered and booed, shouting support for policies like single-payer health care or investigating President Donald Trump’s administration over its ties to Russian officials. One attendee held a sign that read, “This is not a town hall,” emphasizing widely held sentiments by protesters that the moderated discussion with Feinstein would not replace actually meeting with her constituents.

But unlike traditional town hall meetings, the PPIC event didn’t permit audience members to question Feinstein in person until the last 20 minutes. Instead, discussion moderator and PPIC President Mark Baldassare read several questions pre-submitted by audience members.

He discouraged the audience from yelling out their questions, and was met with boos when he tried to stop audience members from shouting at Feinstein to push for a special prosecutor to investigate the president.

Feinstein, however, didn’t seem to mind the outbursts from the audience.

“I kind of like it,” Feinstein said of the lively crowd.

Mollie Reilly Protests continued after Feinstein's event concluded.

Several other protests have targeted Feinstein in her hometown. In January, about 200 people gathered outside her home in the city’s tony Pacific Heights neighborhood to demand she vote against confirming Trump’s pick for attorney general, Jeff Sessions. The next day, about 50 Bay Area attorneys protested outside her downtown San Francisco office, also in opposition to the attorney general. (Feinstein ultimately voted against Sessions’ confirmation.)

Indivisible East Bay, an activist group formed in resistance to the Trump administration, will host an “empty chair” town hall in Oakland on Sunday. Protesters in Los Angeles have similarly requested time with the senator, and constituents from across the state continue to flood her phone lines with calls and messages about Trump and his policies.

During Friday’s conversation, Feinstein spoke broadly about her plans to resist Trump’s agenda. She declined to say how she’ll vote on Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch, saying she’ll wait to see how he responds to questions during his confirmation hearings on gun control and reproductive rights.

She also spoke about her role on the Senate Intelligence Committee, and the ongoing investigations into Trump’s controversial ties to Russia. She specifically pointed to the probes into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, saying her committee is “dedicated” to investigating the matter.

“It is so important that this never happen again,” she said on Russian hacking.

Mollie Reilly Many of the protesters held up signs with question marks.

Some questions were allowed at the very end of the program. The first questioner pressed Feinstein to commit to more town halls, and asked whether she would attend Sunday’s “empty chair” town hall.

“We need more access to you directly,” he said.

But Feinstein declined to attend the Sunday event, noting that she needs to return to Washington, D.C. However, she said she would “try” to host more open events with constituents in the future.

“I pretty much know how my people feel,” she said of her constituents. “But maybe I don’t know exactly how you feel. So maybe I should provide an opportunity, and I will.”

Feinstein’s office has said it decided against hosting a town hall because this recess was just one week long. But that time constraint didn’t stop many of her colleagues from meeting with their constituents.

Those lawmakers, including Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell (Ky.), Tom Cotton (Ark.) and Chuck Grassley (Iowa), were met with large, angry crowds seeking answers on health care reform, immigration and other issues.Look, having nuclear—my uncle was a great professor and scientist and engineer, Dr. John Trump at MIT. Good genes, very good genes, OK? Very smart: the Wharton School of Finance, very good, very smart. You know, if you’re a conservative Republican—if I were a liberal, if, like, OK, if I ran as a liberal Democrat, they would say I’m one of the smartest people anywhere in the world—it’s true!—but when you’re a conservative Republican, they try—oh, do they do a number. That’s why I always start off: Went to Wharton, was a good student, went there, went there, did this, built a fortune. You know, I have to give my like credentials all the time, because we’re a little disadvantaged. But you look at the nuclear deal, the thing that really bothers me: it would have been so easy—and it’s not as important as these lives are. Nuclear is so powerful. My uncle explained that to me many, many years ago, the power—and that was 35 years ago—he would explain the power of what’s going to happen, and he was right. Who would have thought? But when you look at what’s going on with the four prisoners— now it used to be three, now it’s four—but when it was three. And even now, I would have said it’s all in the messenger: “Fellas,”—and it is fellas because, you know, they don’t, they haven’t figured that the women are smarter right now than the men, so you know it’s gonna take them about another 150 years—but the Persians are great negotiators, the Iranians are great negotiators, so ... And they, they just killed, they just killed us.President Donald Trump says he doesn’t like the media. You’ve probably heard about this, because he won’t stop talking about it. Also: The media won’t stop talking about it. But yes, Trump has referred to the media as “the enemy of the people,” which means he fits somewhere on the continuum between “standard-issue White House antipathy for the press,” and “literally putting the entire mastheads of news organizations in labor camps.” (The joke’s on him: We already work in labor camps!)

Still, Trump’s rise has touched off all manner of discussions in media circles, many of which are good. We’re seeing a real re-dedication to the craft of reporting. Editors are talking up the need to be more alive to possibilities, more aware of the lives of others, and more skeptical of monopolies of political and economic power. This is all to the good; These discussions should be permanent features that outlast the Trump presidency.

But those in the media industry also apparently are having other, more meaningless discussions. Here, for example, is a story in BuzzFeed, about a super-important internal discussion happening at CNN:

CNN is considering sitting out of the White House Correspondents’ Dinner, according to two people familiar with the matter, as the annual star-studded affair takes on renewed scrutiny from media outlets irked by the White House’s demonization of the press. CNN is still actively discussing internally whether it will ultimately send staffers to the event, which is scheduled for April 29, according to one of these people. “We haven’t made a decision on it yet,” a CNN spokesperson said.

How is this a news story? Why does anyone in the world need to hear about these deliberations?.

The White House Correspondents Association dinner ― an annual gathering of Beltway occupants who pretend to like each other and a motley passel of mostly confused celebrities ― has over the course of many years become a tired journalistic genre. The central criticism of the affair ― that it is, as BuzzFeed’s Steven Perlberg summarizes, a “bizarre spectacle of media and government coziness” ― has been made so many times already that even I have grown weary of hearing about it, even though I agree with these sentiments. Members of the correspondents association vehemently disagree with this take. We could go on arguing with each other for years.

But what’s the point? It’s been very clear for a long while that pointing this out won’t kill the damn thing, no matter how often you try. It’s also clear that no one is going to write a better story about the dinner than the one Foster Kamer and Kat Stoeffel wrote back in 2011 for the New York Observer. (Which is worth re-reading, by the way!) When it comes to thoroughly played-out topics of discussion, you really cannot beat the White House correspondents dinner.

Unfortunately, Trump has managed to breathe new, navel-gazing life into the subject by giving the media the opportunity to talk about not attending the dinner as a symbolic act of ... something? High-mindedness? Revolt? It’s really hard to say what troubling things are coursing through the heads of CNN higher-ups as they contemplate what to do about the White House correspondents dinner.

Somehow or another, though, they are clearly considering whether withholding their participation in an annual orgy of self-regard could achieve some good, after many years of never contemplating this possibility. What change do they think can be wrought by doing so? How on earth did they come to imagine that their involvement is some sort of leverage point in the Trump era? (You know that President Barack Obama surveilled the phone records of Associated Press reporters, right? I don’t recall this forcing anyone to publicly rend their garments over how the party could possibly go on.)

Obviously, CNN is not alone in these musings. At the beginning of the month, The New Yorker and Vanity Fair announced that they were “pulling out” of the White House correspondents dinner. That is to say: Those two magazines will not be throwing their pre- and post-dinner parties that have traditionally served to amplify the self-congratulatory nature of the occasion, as well as underscoring its exclusiveness.

The loss of these wholly vestigial organs was covered as some sort of shock to the Beltway’s very existence and forced White House Correspondents Association President Jeff Mason to issue a statement:

We have been forced into a conflict, for we are called, with our allies, to meet the challenge of a principle which, if it were to prevail, would be fatal to any civilized order in the world.

Oh, wait. Sorry, that’s King George VI’s speech to the British people after his nation declared war on Germany in 1939. It’s an easy mistake to make.

But an even easier mistake is imagining that Trump has made not participating in the White House correspondents dinner into some radical act of courage, an argument that necessarily implies that some sort of shame should now ― again, because of Trump ― accrue to those who participate. If CNN is any guide, news organizations are treating this as some sort of conundrum that must be wrestled to the ground.

This is a very weird problem to pretend to have!

Around the same time Vanity Fair and The New Yorker were solemnly self-sacrificing their cocktail hours for The Greater Good, U.S. News And World Report editor Robert Schlesinger stepped forward to be the voice of moral courage, urging fellow journalists to boycott the dinner. “Whether Trump himself will show up is an open question anyway,” wrote Schlesinger, “but regardless, news organizations should buy tickets as usual (it’s for a good cause) but make other plans that night and if he does attend, let the ratings- and crowd-obsessed narcissist freak address an empty ballroom.”

But let’s listen to what Schlesinger has to say about Trump specifically:

So let me get this straight: Donald Trump is a mendacious and irresponsible president, so journalists have a duty to ... retreat? I don’t get it. This is an argument to get as many journalists into a room with this man as humanly possible, to confront, to bear witness, to stand as some sort of alternative. Now you’re worried about how unseemly this all might look?

There have always been plenty of ways to suggest that the White House correspondents dinner was a gross affair, but somehow or another we’ve managed to break new ground. All the public handwringing over “[with grave intonation] What is to be done about the White House correspondents dinner” is just a nauseating act of grandstanding ― a poor substitute for some more material act that the media will either make or not make, whether they attend this soiree or not.

There are areas where the Trump administration’s actions toward the press have real stakes and demand real action ― the White House decision to blacklist several news outlets and bar them from a closed-door White House briefing is a good example of something with which the media must forcefully contend.

But questions over whether Trump has somehow made attending the dinner uniquely untenable isn’t something that should concern serious people. We are talking about a party. And for years, this party’s attendees have repeatedly urged critics to disabuse themselves of the notion that their attendance has any meaning, and have continually asserted that the event has absolutely no effect on their ability to properly scrutinize and critique the president. This idea has always been central to the dinner’s mythology, the talismanic response given to anyone who thought this to be a journalistically fraught affair.

Well, guess what? You can’t have it both ways. Stop acting like withdrawing oneself from the White House correspondents dinner constitutes some noble act of resistance, and stop making it look like a real thing over which you need to publicly agonize.

Go. Don’t go. Do whatever. But consider, at long last, the possibility that it may be better for journalists to stand in a room with their “enemy” than it is to toast a president who wants to be your pal.

The Huffington Post

~~~~~Barbara Pierce Bush, the daughter of former President George W. Bush, will headline a Planned Parenthood fundraiser in North Texas on Wednesday.

She will be the keynote speaker at Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas’ annual Fort Worth luncheon, helping to raise money for an organization that provides an array of reproductive and sexual health services, including abortions.

Bush’s public appearance before the group is striking, given that her father, President George W. Bush, was a staunch abortion opponent during his time as Texas governor and as president.

But it’s not entirely unexpected. Bush’s mother, former First Lady Laura Bush, has expressed support for the legality of abortion on a handful of occasions. The younger Bush, the CEO and co-founder of Global Health Corps, called Planned Parenthood an “exceptional organization” in a June New York Times interview, and attended a fundraiser for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in Paris in October.

The lead donor of the luncheon is Sid R. Bass, the prominent Fort Worth billionaire.

Bush’s health organization is, according to its website, a nonprofit that “mobilizes a global community of young leaders to build the movement for health equity.” It partners with organizations overseas to place fellows in year-long tenures promoting world health. Several Planned Parenthood branches are among those organizations.

There’s a strong Texas connection in all of this: The president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America is Cecile Richards, the daughter of the late Texas Gov. Ann Richards.

Bush’s father ousted Richards from the Governor’s Mansion in 1994. Many political observers viewed that campaign as — at least in part — revenge for Richards’ acerbic 1988 Democratic National Convention keynote speech mocking the GOP nominee. It was Bush’s grandfather, George H.W. Bush.

Read more:

Texas health officials have delivered a final legal notice to nix the funding Planned Parenthood receives through the Medicaid program.

In June, the U.S. Supreme Court handed Texas abortion providers a major victory by overturning Texas’ 2013 abortion restrictions.

Disclosure: Planned Parenthood has been a financial supporter of The Texas Tribune. A complete list of Tribune donors and sponsors can be viewed here.The U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency said on Friday it will accept proposals next month for the design of a wall to be built near the U.S.-Mexican frontier, a first step in picking vendors for President Donald Trump’s proposed border wall.

In a document on the federal government’s website for business opportunities, the CPB said it would release a request on or about March 6 asking companies for prototype ideas for a wall to be built near the U.S.-Mexican border.

After reviewing the ideas submitted by vendors, the agency will evaluate and select the best designs by March 20, then issue a request for proposals by March 24 in which vendors would be asked to price out the cost of building the proposed wall.

The document says multiple awards for the barrier are expected by mid-April as part of the process, an aggressive schedule for a government construction project.

“It’s going to start soon. Way ahead of schedule, way ahead of schedule,” Trump told the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday.

A spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the solicitation published on Friday had “everything to do” with the wall that Trump has proposed.

The spokesman said the initial request for information was to give industry the opportunity to tell the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees CBP, what is possible in constructing a border wall.

“Once we get feedback from the vendors, we’ll look at the ones that are most feasible,” the spokesman said. That would be followed by the request for proposals to firm up exactly how much constructing the wall would cost.

A U.S. Department of Homeland Security internal report seen by Reuters this month indicated the border wall would be a series of fences and walls that would cost as much as $21.6 billion to build and take more than three years to complete.

The report’s estimated price tag is much higher than a $12 billion figure cited by Trump in his campaign and estimates as high as $15 billion from Republican House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

The plan laid out what it would take to seal the border in three phases of construction of fences and walls covering just over 1,250 miles (2,000 km) by the end of 2020. With 654 miles (1,046 km) of the border already fortified, the new construction would extend almost the length of the entire border.Sometimes, a game of golf is just a game of golf. At least according to golf champion Rory McIlroy, who on Friday defended his weekend outing with President Donald Trump.

The four-time major champion from Northern Ireland joined Trump Sunday for a round of golf at the Trump International Golf Club in Florida, prompting a flood of criticism on Twitter. McIlroy said he’d been called a bigot and a fascist.

“This wasn’t an endorsement or a political statement of any kind,” McIlroy said in a statement. “It was, quite simply, a round of golf. Golf was our common ground, nothing else.”

McIlroy told The Guardian he’s been interested in Trump’s rise. He said in his statement that he was invited to play with the president.

“The whole circus, this big show is intriguing to watch,” he said.

Trump is an avid golfer, but frequently criticized former President Barack Obama for time he spent playing, implying Obama was shirking his presidential duties. (Trump has also been frequently accused of cheating.)

Trump said he wouldn’t give up the sport, and would “always play with leaders of countries and people who can help us.” He has played multiple times in his first month in office.

Trump and McIlroy were scheduled to play a couple holes together on Sunday, but a White House press aide said Trump “decided to play longer.”

“He also had a full day of meetings, calls and interviews for the new [national security adviser],” Sarah Huckabee Sanders added.

McIlroy told golf site No Laying Up that Trump “probably shot around 80.”

“He’s a decent player for a guy in his 70s,” McIlroy said of the president.

Big battle today at Trump International with Clear CEO Garry Singer @McIlroyRory @PaulONeillYES @realDonaldTrump Drain the putt... pic.twitter.com/AZJqEVtlBT — ClearSports (@ClearSportsLLC) February 19, 2017

Whether “you respect the person who holds that position or not, you respect the office that he holds,” McIlroy said of his game with Trump.

Other athletes have taken a different approach. After the New England Patriots’ Super Bowl LI win, at least six players said they won’t attend the team’s upcoming visit to the White House. And NBA stars like LeBron James and Stephen Curry have been vocal about their distaste for the president.

At least one of McIlroy’s peers came to his defense. English pro golfer Ian Poulter on Friday tweeted his approval for McIlroy’s statement.WASHINGTON ― Pennsylvania Democrats would like to dig themselves out of a huge deficit in the state’s House of Representatives, where Republicans hold 121 out of 203 seats. That could be slightly more difficult now that their candidate for a special election in a heavily Democratic district has just been kicked off the ballot for allegedly not living in the district.

A Commonwealth Court judge ruled Thursday that Frederick Ramirez, the Democratic candidate for the 197th House District seat, must be removed from the ballot for the March 21 election. The decision, if upheld on appeal, would leave Democrats with no listed candidate. The 197th District encompasses heavily Latino neighborhoods in Philadelphia where 85 percent of voters are Democrats and just 5 percent are Republicans.

The only other candidate on the ballot is Republican Lucinda Little.

Judge Anne Covey held that Ramirez did not meet the requirements for maintaining a domicile in the district. The court was presented with evidence of low water and energy usage for the apartment in which the candidate claimed to be living. Ramirez acknowledged that he spent multiple days of the week with his daughter at a suburban house and with his girlfriend at her home outside the district.

“I believe the court got it wrong,” Ramirez’s lawyer, Adam Bonin, told The Huffington Post.

“I can’t believe this,” said Ramirez, according to the Philadelphia Inquirer. “This is a political decision. This is not a legal decision.”

The case was initiated by the local Republican Party and joined by two Democrats, as necessary under state law.

Covey’s decision creates a real possibility that Democrats could lose a seat they should otherwise win easily. It comes amid a string of bad news for Pennsylvania Democrats. Not only did they lose ground in the state legislature in 2016 and fail to defeat U.S. Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), but a number of their elected officials have recently faced corruption convictions or allegations.

Leslie Acosta, the previous occupant of the 197th District seat, was forced to step down after pleading guilty to felony embezzlement in 2016, hence the upcoming special election. In June, U.S. Rep. Chaka Fattah of Philadelphia was found guilty of corruption charges stemming from his 2007 bid to become mayor of Philadelphia. He resigned and was later sentenced to 10 years in prison. Other Philadelphia Democrats, including a city councilman and the former district attorney, face federal probes.

The Democratic setback in Pennsylvania also occurs just as a new generation of activists are flooding party offices across the country looking to turn their anger at President Donald Trump and the national Republican Party into political action at the local level.

There is still a chance that the party could hold onto the 197th seat. “We are carefully studying all of our options, but time is of the essence now,” Bonin said.

Ramirez could appeal the decision to the state Supreme Court. Democrats could also ask the courts to allow them to replace Ramirez on the ballot with a different candidate. Since the election is in less than a month, there may not be enough time to pursue the first option and then, if they lose, the second option. The party may have to choose one or the other.

In a last-ditch effort, the party could mount a write-in campaign for a different candidate. While politicians around the country have won under such circumstances, they have usually benefited from years of high name recognition. There may not be a high-profile candidate waiting in the wings for the 197th.

Democrats aren’t the only ones to find themselves in a bad position in this special election. Green Party candidate Cheri Honkala isn’t on the ballot either, because her party didn’t file nomination papers on time. The Green Party currently holds one state legislative seat in the United States.WASHINGTON ― An internal Department of Homeland Security assessment throws cold water on President Donald Trump’s justification for attempting to ban citizens of seven Muslim-majority nations from entering the United States.

The draft report, first uncovered by the Associated Press on Friday, states that citizenship is “likely an unreliable indicator of terrorist threat to the United States.” It was prepared after Trump issued the ban and saw it blocked by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, the AP reported. A DHS spokeswoman confirmed that the draft was real but said it did not include all the information and analysis the agency provided on the order.

Trump said the executive order he signed on Jan. 27 was based on the need to prevent terrorist attacks, although his administration cited no specific threats from the countries the order targeted.

The executive order would have blocked citizens of seven countries ― Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen ― from entering the U.S. for at least 90 days, while keeping out all refugees for 120 days and Syrian refugees indefinitely. It is currently on hold due to multiple legal challenges, but Trump says he plans to soon issue a new version that will pass legal muster.

Trump and administration officials argue it was not a “Muslim ban” like the one he promised during his presidential campaign because it did not affect most Muslim-majority countries. They have pointed to a 2015 law that made it harder for people who had visited these seven countries to enter the U.S. ― saying even Barack Obama, president at the time, agreed that was acceptable and signed the law. Trump repeated that argument at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday.

Administration officials said they stood by Trump’s justification and argued that the document was not a full assessment of terrorist threats.

“The seven countries were identified by the previous administration as being countries of concern for foreign terrorist travel to the Unites States. Consequently, these countries were the focus of this administration’ s initial efforts to enhance vetting for foreign travel to the United States,” DHS spokeswoman Gillian Christensen said in a statement. “It is the policy of the United States to protect its citizens from foreign nationals who intend to commit terrorist attacks in the United States; and to prevent the admission of foreign nationals who intend to exploit United States immigration laws for malevolent purposes.”

Still, the DHS draft is added evidence for reports of disputes within the government over whether blanket bans based on citizenship are necessary or effective.

Critics of Trump’s order note that it threatened the rights of millions of people, from green card holders to Christian refugees, and made the U.S. more unpopular in the Muslim-majority world, boosting terror groups’ rhetoric and making cooperation with allies in the region more difficult.

Based on public reports from the Justice and State departments, the Homeland Security assessment reported that citizens of the countries targeted by Trump’s executive order were rarely implicated in terrorism in the U.S. Of 82 individuals who were convicted or died in the pursuit of terrorist activity in the U.S. since March 2011, more than half were U.S.-born citizens, the report noted. Those who were foreign-born did not come primarily from one, two or even seven specific countries ― they were from 26 different ones.

Some of the top countries in the report that produced those linked to terror were not included in Trump’s travel ban. Pakistan, for example, was the birthplace of five individuals but was not singled out by the executive order. Somalia, which was covered by the ban, produced three of the individuals, while two were born in Iraq and one each in Iran, Sudan and Yemen.

There were no individuals from Syria implicated in terrorist activity during the period included in the report. Syria is the country most affected in Trump’s executive order ― he sought to bar refugees from the war-torn country indefinitely, rather than for a 120-day period like he did with refugees from other countries.Authorities in Florida say arson is to blame for a fire at a mosque early Friday morning, marking the third time in less than a year that a Tampa-area Islamic center has been set ablaze.

Corey Dierdorff, spokesman for the Hillsborough County Fire and Rescue, told The Huffington Post that firefighters responded to an automatic fire alarm call at the Daarus Salaam Mosque, also known as the Islamic Society of New Tampa, shortly after 2 a.m. Friday.

Firefighters extinguished flames on the porch next to the mosque’s door. Radiant heat from that fire, Dierdorff said, caused the mosque’s interior fire sprinkler system to turn on, causing extensive water damage. There were also holes in the door’s shatterproof glass.

“Physical evidence led us to believe it was arson,” Dierdorff said of the fire.

“It is worrisome that our community have fallen victim of what appears to be another hate crime,” Wilfredo Ruiz, spokesman for the Florida chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said in a statement.

“This time another Florida mosque has been targeted in a crime that could have easily taken the life of any worshiper,” he continued. “Our prayers are with the New Tampa Mosque community; and we are grateful that nobody was physically hurt.”

Mosque members were unable to pray inside the building Friday.

“The anti-Islamic threats targeting our Muslim community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,” Shakiel Humayun, one of the mosque’s parishioners, wrote in Facebook post.

CAIR-Florida offered a $5,000 reward Friday for any information leading to an arrest in the attack. The group’s executive director, Hassan Shibly, also called on President Donald Trump to speak out against what Shibly called a “terrorist attack.”

We are also calling on @realDonaldTrump to denounce this terrorist attack against our Mosque and increase in Islamophobia. https://t.co/CBYFyFLHqV — Hassan Shibly (@HassanShibly) February 24, 2017

Trump’s presidential campaign, which trafficked heavily in anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant rhetoric, corresponded ― perhaps not coincidentally, some researchers argue ― with a rise in hate crimes targeting Muslims across the U.S.

FBI statistics show that anti-Muslim hate crimes increased by 67 percent from 2014 to 2015. Also in 2015, according to CAIR, mosques were targeted for vandalism, arson and other types of destruction 80 times, a nearly 400 percent rise from the year before.

The number of anti-Muslim hate groups tripled in 2016, according to a recent report from the Southern Poverty Law Center. Earlier this week, White House press secretary Sean Spicer dodged a question about the rise in anti-Muslim hate groups, and instead talked about “Islamic terrorism.”

A week after Trump’s inauguration in January, a mosque in Victoria, Texas, was destroyed by fire. Investigators later determined the cause of the fire was arson. Earlier that month, police arrested a man for setting a Bellevue, Washington, mosque on fire. And in July and August, five Tampa-area mosques caught on fire. Authorities later determined the cause of two of those fires to be arson.

Dierdorff, of Hillsborough County Fire and Rescue, told HuffPost “we’re still in the very beginning stages of the investigation” and it would be “too premature” to determine whether the string of mosque arsons in and around Tampa are connected.President Donald Trump kicked off his Friday by attacking the U.S. intelligence community once again. He lashed out at the FBI, tweeting that the agency is “totally unable to stop national security ‘leakers.’”

The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security "leakers" that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

Trump’s outburst comes hours after CNN and The Associated Press reported that White House chief of staff Reince Priebus had asked the FBI to publicly dispute reports that the president’s team had communicated with Russian officials throughout the 2016 presidential campaign.

FBI director James Comey reportedly refused to comply with the request because of the agency’s ongoing investigation into Trump’s associates and their potentially illegal links to the Kremlin.

Comey was criticized after he decided just days before the 2016 election to reinvestigate the emails of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Though the investigation didn’t turn up any damning new information, Democrats have said that it damaged Clinton’s election chances.

The White House has repeatedly denied allegations that Trump associates kept “constant communication” with Russian officials during the campaign, as first reported by The New York Times and CNN this month.

Trump’s Friday tweet didn’t deny accusations that the White House attempted to meddle in the FBI’s investigation, but instead took aim at FBI “leakers” who could have a “devastating effect” on the U.S.

This seems like presidential confirmation that the White House asked the FBI to help cover Trump campaign ties to Russian officers. https://t.co/lI21garYCs — Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) February 24, 2017

The target of the president’s attack appears to be misdirected as the AP reported that a “White House official” leaked Priebus’ request for the FBI to squash the reports.

The U.S. intelligence community has found itself increasingly at odds with the Trump administration. Following Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn’s resignation as national security advisor this month for misleading Vice President Mike Pence about communication he had with a Russian ambassador in December, Trump launched an attack on “leakers” within U.S. intelligence.

“From intelligence, papers are being leaked, things are being leaked,” Trump said at a February news conference. “It’s a criminal action, criminal act, and it’s been going on for a long time before me, but now it’s really going on. And people are trying to cover up for a terrible loss that the Democrats had under Hillary Clinton.”Law enforcement in North Dakota emptied what had been the largest of the Dakota Access Pipeline opposition camps on Thursday by arresting dozens of protesters who disobeyed orders to leave.

A showdown of some sort had been expected as several hundred protesters, who called themselves “water protectors,” had remained in the Oceti Sakowin encampment earlier this week despite the looming deadline authorities had given them to vacate the site on federal land by Wednesday afternoon.

Members of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe who oppose the pipeline created the camp last spring. They argue the 1,172-mile pipeline violates their rights established in an 1851 federal treaty and might contaminate their drinking water, because it was not properly reviewed.

Photographer Josh Morgan was there for The Huffington Post documenting the waning hours of the group that had vowed to halt completion of the pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux’s reservation.

Time winds down

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

Oceti Sakowin was fairly quiet on Wednesday morning. Debris and dumpsters were scattered throughout the soggy campsite just hours before the government-ordered eviction was scheduled to take effect.

Protesters set fires

Josh Morgan/ The Huffington Post

Authorities said that protesters had set about 20 fires on Wednesday ahead of the evacuation deadline. They reported that two minors were transported to a hospital with burns.

Law enforcement enters the camp

Josh Morgan/ The Huffington Post

Morton County sheriff’s department officials announced they’d made 46 arrests on Thursday, a day after the remaining pipeline opponents had been ordered to vacate the camp.

North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum (R) and the Army Corps of Engineers had said the camp must be cleared because of health and safety risks. The camp was expected to flood as winter snows melt, and the flow could push debris and waste into nearby rivers, the authorities warned.

Water protectors hold their ground

Josh Morgan/ The Huffington Post

After Wednesday’s deadline to evacuate had passed, a small group of Native Americans, veterans and other activists remained in the camp. Law enforcement put the number at “no more than 100.”

The few dozen protesters who remained until Thursday afternoon lined up to face the advancing law enforcement officers.

Swan song of the movement?

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

Standing shoulder to shoulder, some protesters sang as police began the forced removal of everyone from camp.

Holdouts face arrest

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

Although some protesters left of their own volition, authorities handcuffed dozens of others who’d ignored orders to disperse from Oceti Sakowin.

The Morton County sheriff’s office said the holdouts included a group of military veterans who refused to leave their tent. Law enforcement carried the vets from the camp, the sheriff’s office said in a statement.

Officers search camp

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

Officers combed through remaining structures, such as this tent, while checking for protesters during Thursday’s raid.

Fleeing to safety

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

Some protesters avoided police by crossing the frozen Cannonball River to leave Oceti Sakowin.

Ramona Three Legs, 24, and Oscar High Elk, 26, both of the Cheyenne River Sioux tribe, told HuffPost that they abandoned their belongings as police swept into the camp.

“This is just another part of the struggle we’ve been living for all of our lives,” High Elk said. “Our home was in there.”

Solemn moment

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

A water protector prayed on the Cannonball River as North Dakota authorities cleared the Oceti Sakowin camp on Thursday.

Smoldering remnants of camp

Josh Morgan/The Huffington Post

On Thursday morning, what had once been a teeming, highly organized camp looked like a deserted war zone. Wreckage still smoldered in the muddy, snowy ground from fires that had been set by protesters to wooden buildings, yurts and other structures the previous day.

A massive cleanup of the site had begun in recent weeks, but was far from complete before authorities retook control of the site from protesters.

Defiant march

Josh Morgan/ The Huffington Post

A group of about 200 protesters had marched around Oceti Sakowin singing songs and beating drums on Wednesday shortly before the government’s deadline to clear the camp. One man carried an upside-down American flag.

A large number of the marchers climbed aboard buses to leave the site after the demonstration.

An emotional goodbye

Josh Morgan/The Huffington PostWASHINGTON ― Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday withdrew an Obama-era Justice Department memo that set a goal of reducing and ultimately ending the Justice Department’s use of private prisons.

In a one-page memo to the acting head of the Bureau of Prisons, Sessions wrote that the August 2016 memo by former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates “changed long-standing policy and practice, and impaired the Bureau’s ability to meet the future needs of the federal correctional system.”

A Justice Department spokesman said Sessions’ memo “directs the Bureau of Prisons to return to its previous approach to the use of private prisons,” which would “restore BOP’s flexibility to manage the federal prison inmate population based on capacity needs.”

BOP currently has 12 private prison contracts that hold around 21,000 inmates. Yates had said that private prisons compared “poorly” to BOP prisons. Her memo followed a damning report from the Justice Department’s inspector general which found that privately run facilities were more dangerous than those run by BOP.

The two largest private prison companies have told investors that they have room to accommodate increased use of their prisons by federal or state and local authorities. On an earnings call with stock analysts this week, executives at GEO Group emphasized that their company has a total of 5,000 spots in its prisons that are presently either unused or underutilized.

GEO senior vice President David Donahue put it fairly bluntly, telling analysts that their idle and underutilized cells are “immediately available and meet ICE’s national detention standards.”

CoreCivic, formerly known as CCA, told investors on Feb. 17 that the company has nine idle prisons that can hold a total of 8,700 people. Those prisons are ready to accept inmates on short notice. “All of our idle facilities are modern and well maintained, and can be made available to potential state and federal partners without much, if any capital investment or the lead-time required for new construction,” CEO Damon Hininger said.

Indeed, Haninger said that CoreCivic was already holding more detained immigrants for the federal government than they anticipated. “Our financial performance in the fourth quarter of 2016 was well above our initial forecast due, in large part, to heightened utilization by ICE across the portfolio,” he said.

And, Haninger said, the Trump administration’s actions could boost financial performance even further. “When coupled with the above average rate crossings along the Southwest border, these executive orders appear likely to significantly increase the need for safe, humane and appropriate detention bed capacity that we have available in our existing real-estate portfolio,” he said. “We are well positioned,” to get more business from ICE, Haninger said.

David C. Fathi, who directs the American Civil Liberties Union’s National Prison Project, said that giving for-profit companies control of prisons is “a recipe for abuse and neglect.” He said the Sessions memo was a further sign the U.S. “may be headed for a new federal prison boom” under the Trump administration.

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said the Sessions memo was an example of “how our corrupt political and campaign finance system” works.

“Private prison companies invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and today they got their reward: the Trump administration reversed the Obama administration’s directive to reduce the Justice Department’s use of private prisons,” Sanders said in a statement. “At a time when we already have more people behind bars than any other country, Trump just opened the floodgates for private prisons to make huge profits by building more prisons and keeping even more Americans in jail.”WASHINGTON ― With TV’s Dog the Bounty Hunter looking on from the front row, a civil rights attorney representing an indigent Georgia man appeared before a federal appeals court Thursday in a case that could affect the future of the multibillion-dollar bail bond industry ― and the constitutional rights of people who are legally presumed innocent but can’t afford to purchase their freedom.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit heard oral arguments in Atlanta on Thursday in the case of Maurice Walker v. City of Calhoun. Walker, a 54-year-old with a serious mental health disorder, lived with his sister and was receiving about $530 in Social Security disability payments per month when he was arrested in Calhoun, Georgia, on Sept. 3, 2015, for walking while drunk.

Taken to Gordon County Jail, Walker was told he would not be released unless he came up with $160 in cash ― the amount that Calhoun’s bail schedule set for all people arrested as pedestrians under the influence, regardless of their financial circumstances.

Deprived of his medication and forced to spend 23 hours a day in his cell, Walker was not scheduled to appear before a judge until 11 days after his arrest. But D.C.-based civil rights attorneys and lawyers with the Southern Center for Human Rights intervened, filing a lawsuit on Walker’s behalf while he was still in custody. The suit described Calhoun’s preset bail system as a “money-based post-arrest detention scheme” that discriminated against the poor.

Last year, a federal judge granted a preliminary injunction against Calhoun and ruled that “any bail or bond scheme that mandates payment of pre-fixed amounts for different offenses to obtain pretrial release, without any consideration of indigence or other factors, violates the Equal Protection Clause.”

The class action suit is about much more than just Walker and the city of Calhoun, which made changes to its bail practices following the litigation. Walker v. Calhoun is one of several cases across the nation challenging the practice of money bail, many of them filed by Alec Karakatsanis, now of the organization Civil Rights Corps, who has been waging a battle against bail policies that have a disparate impact on the poor.

When pretrial defendants accused of minor offenses are locked up for even a short period of time, it can have severe consequences. They can lose their jobs, their housing and the connections that give their lives stability. Sometimes, they can lose their lives. As part of an extensive investigation of jail deaths across the United States, The Huffington Post reported last year on the death of Mark Goodrum, 60-year-old stroke victim who died in a troubled jail in Virginia (which is now under federal investigation).

Charged with smoking marijuana in his apartment, and after missing a court date while he was ill, Goodrum was held on $1,000 bond, meaning he’d need about $100 in cash to purchase a commercial bail bond. Instead, he died in the jail’s custody a month after his arrest. Goodrum’s death was tragic but not unique: Dozens of people accused of similar low-level offenses died behind bars over the course of the year.

Under the Obama administration, the Justice Department filed an amicus brief in the Walker case stating that when bail practices “do not account for indigence,” they result in “the unnecessary incarceration of numerous individuals who are presumed innocent.” Other amicus briefs in the Walker case calling fixed-money bail systems unconstitutional were filed by the Pretrial Justice Institute and the American Bar Association.

The case was heard on Thursday by Judge William Pryor, a George W. Bush appointee; Judge Adalberto Jordan, a Barack Obama appointee; and Judge Bobby L. Baldock, a Ronald Reagan appointee who is visiting from the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals. They’ll decide whether the lower court erred by issuing a preliminary injunction that, until major changes were made, banned the town from holding anyone charged with a misdemeanor.

Former U.S. Solicitor General Paul Clement, a widely respected conservative attorney known for (unsuccessfully) arguing before the Supreme Court in 2013 that the Defense of Marriage Act was constitutional, represented the American Bail Coalition, a trade association for the bail bond industry. For-profit bail bondsmen in the U.S. handle $14 billion in bonds each year, raking in $2 billion in annual revenue, according to a 2012 report by the Justice Policy Institute. A handful of large insurance firms are responsible for underwriting the majority of these companies, and have mounted an aggressive lobbying campaign to protect the industry’s bottom line.

Clement entered an amicus brief in the case, but did not appear before the court on Thursday. However, in a separate case in Maryland, Clement recently argued that the U.S. Constitution “does not include a right to affordable bail in every case,” and that pretrial deprivation “is not a punishment.” He also said the Constitution “doesn’t guarantee everyone the means of being able to post the bail,” only that it guarantees the option. (Maryland’s highest court ultimately reached a compromise this month that did not abolish money bail, but rather told judges to look for alternative ways to make sure defendants show up at future court appearances.)

The battle over bail certainly hasn’t broken down along straight party lines, and many conservatives support bail reform. In New Jersey, which recently underwent a massive reform to its pretrial detention and bail system, Gov. Chris Christie (R) defended the new practices and accused the bail bond industry of posting “ridiculous” propaganda “crap” about the reforms failing.

“The bail bonds community has made a fortune over the years predominantly on the backs of poor people in New Jersey,” Christie said in a radio interview. “We are now stopping them from doing it and they’re pissed. Too bad. You shouldn’t be making money off the poor that way.”

And the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, filed an amicus brief in the Walker case arguing that the court’s decision to issue a preliminary injunction against Calhoun was supported by “nearly a millennium of Anglo-American constitutional and common law.” The institute asserted that the right to pretrial liberty has been a procedural right since “time immemorial,” even before the Magna Carta was put in place more than 800 years ago.

In other parts of the world, paying a person’s bond in exchange for money is the equivalent of obstruction of justice. Today, just one other country in the entire world ― the Philippines ― has a commercial bail bond industry similar to that which exists in the United States.

But Clement, in his brief on behalf of the bail industry in the Walker case, argued that bail is a “well-founded tradition” that has been around since the nation’s birth. His brief called the lawsuit “a frontal attack” on the bail system, and argued that the commercial bail bond industry “allows individuals of all financial means to leverage their social networks and community ties to obtain pretrial release.”

As Clement defends the bail industry in court, two of the most famous people associated with the bail industry ― Duane Chapman, aka Dog the Bounty Hunter, and his wife, Beth ― are aiding a public relations campaign to save the bail industry. Duane Chapman called the battle over the future of bail a “two-front war” involving both litigation and legislation. “This is an all-out assault by the criminal lobby to change a 200 year old practice of cash bail,” he said in a statement about attending oral arguments in the case.

Beth Chapman, who last year was elected president of the Professional Bail Agents of the United States, said the bail industry “provides a service to the government and helps ensure the public’s safety at no cost to the taxpayers.” In reality, though, jailing people is expensive, and U.S. taxpayers end up footing the bill. A report published last month found that pretrial incarceration costs $14 billion a year, with much of that money going to process and house lower-risk defendants who are only locked up because they can’t afford bail.

Chapman said the lawyers challenging cash bail systems are “social justice lackeys” whose “only goal is to make it easier for the bad guys to get out of jail with no repercussion and no deterrent.”

As the bail industry and civil rights advocates await the federal appeals court decision, there’s another court battle shaping up in Texas next month. Harris County, which has an understaffed jail where at least 12 inmates died over the course of a single year, is facing a lawsuit from Civil Rights Corps alleging that its bail system is unconstitutional.WASHINGTON ― After having no luck with President Donald Trump, Indiana factory workers on Thursday pleaded with their governor to stop their companies from shipping their jobs to Mexico.

Gov. Eric Holcomb (R) met with leaders from the Indianapolis chapter of the United Steelworkers union, which represents workers at Carrier and Rexnord, two profitable companies that Trump has harshly criticized for closing Indianapolis factories.

The Rexnord layoffs are a symbol of the failure of Trump’s force of will alone to stop companies from offshoring jobs. In the face of Trump’s criticism, Carrier changed its plans, but Rexnord didn’t. Soon, the bearings manufacturer will lay off about 300 workers.

Local 1999 President Chuck Jones said he asked Holcomb if there was anything the governor could offer, such as new tax incentives, to convince the companies not to proceed with the layoffs.

“They said that there wasn’t anything they could do on that, so that was not an option,” Jones said.

A Holcomb spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

Last year, Trump and former Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, now the vice president, gave Carrier’s parent company, United Technologies, $7 million worth of tax breaks as part of a deal to keep Carrier’s Indianapolis furnace factory running. The agreement saved 800 jobs at the plant, though roughly 500 workers will still be let go.

United Technologies may have agreed to keep the plant partly because the firm earns billions from contracts with the Defense Department; Rexnord doesn’t.

United Technologies CEO Greg Hayes and other corporate bigwigs met with the president at the White House on Thursday.

“Did you bring any more of those jobs back?” Trump said to Hayes, drawing laughter from the room, according to a reporter who was present.

“But one thing he did,” Trump continued. “You know, I said, you were given so much credit for that. And I heard two days ago that you’re selling way more Carrier air conditioning. People are buying Carrier because of what you did ― bringing the jobs back to Indiana. ... Thank you.”

In addition to the 500 Carrier layoffs this year, United Technologies plans to fire 700 workers from a different subsidiary in Indiana.

Trump has always said he would renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade deals that make it profitable for companies to lay off American workers in favor of cheaper foreign labor. But he also said he would be able to save jobs by picking up a phone, using dealmaking skills he learned from his real estate career. However outlandish that may have seemed, Trump in December asked for a list of companies that have announced plans to pack up for Mexico.

“I can call them myself,” Trump said to his chief of staff, in front of a reporter from Time magazine. “Five minutes apiece. They won’t be leaving. O.K.?”

It’s not clear if Trump has spoken on the phone with Rexnord CEO Todd Adams. So far, the president’s only comment on the company came in a November tweet that called the firm vicious, which Jones took as a promise to stop the layoffs.

Rexnord announced plans to close its Indianapolis bearings factory last fall and finalized a plant shutdown agreement with the union in December. The company didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday.

Union members at Carrier and Rexnord have been protesting their companies’ Mexico plans since last year. Carrier workers posted a video of their management informing them of the layoffs. The video received widespread attention and probably helped Carrier get on Trump’s radar.

Brian Reed, who has worked for Rexnord for 24 years, said the governor seemed sincere in the meeting with union leaders on Thursday. Short of saving their jobs, Reed said workers’ representatives told Holcomb the state could send more officials to the plant to help those losing their jobs apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance, a special type of unemployment insurance for workers losing their jobs due to foreign trade. Reed said he planned to use the trade assistance benefits to enroll in machinist training.

In the meantime, Rexnord workers are training their replacements, at least until layoffs begin sometime next month. Reed likened the experience to being a passenger on the Titanic.In 2005, Barack Obama and I were getting into an elevator in Chicago with a few of his Senate staffers. Looking around at the different faces surrounding him, Obama remarked, “I love that my staff looks like a Benetton ad.”

When it came time to put together his administration, Obama understood the value of diversity – not just gender, racial, or sexual orientation – but also a diversity of experiences and viewpoints. He instructed his transition team to seek out the best talent from the private sector, state and local government, philanthropy, and non-profit groups.

Obama understood intuitively that if you want to address the myriad challenges that confront government, you need to have a diverse set of voices and perspectives around the table. It’s especially critical to have voices that are willing to express disagreement with leadership, whether it’s a cabinet member or the president.

Donald Trump has taken a different tack.

Judging from the wall of white men who appear with him at events not held at the Museum of African American History, it’s highly unlikely that the current administration will ever match the diversity of the Obama administration. But if Trump is serious about achieving policy successes, and not repeating the failures of his first month, he would be smart to broaden the pool of political appointees to represent a range of American experiences – even if that comes with the discomfort of hearing more dissenting voices.

According to press accounts, the Trump White House is vetoing candidates for senior agency slots because the proposed pick either was not sufficiently supportive of Trump during the campaign or had been critical of him. Most notably, Elliott Abrams was nixed for the number two spot at State because of “Donald Trump’s thin skin and nothing else.” Apparently, personnel recommendations at departments like Education, Treasury, and HUD have been rejected for similar reasons.

The Trump White House is well within its prerogative to prioritize the hiring of people who have demonstrated long-term support to the president. But if government is to solve complex problems, the previous loyalty of potential candidates can’t be the only factor in whether they are selected for a position.

In the Obama administration, we certainly considered whether someone was an early supporter. But we also looked at whether they had a passion to serve, whether they had the right experience and skills, and how they would fit into a team. There was no litmus test of blind loyalty.

To be sure, not everyone made the cut for jobs in the Obama administration. But if a Republican wanted to serve, we welcomed them even if they had supported John McCain. And we especially embraced Democrats who supported Hillary Clinton during the fierce primary contest.

Given Trump’s outsider campaign, he is already handicapped by a West Wing staff “light on governing experience.” His personnel team also has been slow out of the gate in announcing nominations, so many agencies find themselves with no leadership and with no reinforcements on the horizon.

If Trump is unwilling to widen the circle of potential appointees, he will be relying on a team that, while loyal, is not likely to challenge his worldview and is far too small to run the federal government. This might be a perfectly acceptable way to run a family business, but the failed rollout of the travel ban demonstrates why dissenting voices are needed. And when it comes to solving complicated issues like health care and tax reform, Trump will need to hear a variety of perspectives, including from experts who have challenged him in the past.

Some of Trump’s sharpest critics during the campaign were veterans of previous Republican administrations. And, while Trump is intent on breaking with what he considers to be the failed policies of the past, he will soon learn that experience matters when it comes to navigating government bureaucracies and managing the crises that inevitably arise.

For many of these critics, the tumultuous first month of this administration has not softened their opposition to Donald Trump. But if they do have a change of heart and are willing to serve their country, the president would be well-served to welcome them into the fold. It would certainly go a long way towards making his administration run more like a “fine-tuned machine.”Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) invoked the shooting of former Rep. Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.) on Thursday to explain why he doesn’t want to meet his constituents in a town hall meeting.

“At this time, there are groups from the more violent strains of the leftist ideology, some even being paid, who are preying on public town halls to wreak havoc and threaten public safety,” Gohmert said in a statement, perpetuating GOP politicians’ unfounded claims that “paid protesters” are disrupting the meetings.

Gohmert then mentioned Giffords, who was shot in the head in 2011 during a meeting with constituents. She survived, but six others died in the tragedy.

“Threats are nothing new to me, and I have gotten my share as a felony judge,” Gohmert said. “However, the House Sergeant at Arms advised us after former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords was shot at a public appearance, that civilian attendees at Congressional public events stand the most chance of being harmed or killed — just as happened there.”

Trump has called the angry town hall attendees “Sad!” and said their participation is “planned out by liberal activists,” as if that somehow reduces their legitimacy.

The so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal activists. Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 21, 2017

In a statement released Thursday, Giffords reminded Gohmert that she attended town halls despite the tragedy she faced.

“I was shot on a Saturday morning. By Monday morning, my offices were open to the public,” Giffords said. “Ron Barber ― at my side that Saturday, who was shot multiple times, then elected to Congress in my stead ― held town halls. It’s what the people deserve in a representative.”President Donald Trump said on Thursday he wants to ensure the U.S. nuclear arsenal is at the “top of the pack,” saying the United States has fallen behind in its weapons capacity.

In a Reuters interview, Trump also said China could solve the national security challenge posed by North Korea “very easily if they want to,” ratcheting up pressure on Beijing to exert more influence to rein in Pyongyang’s increasingly bellicose actions.

Trump also expressed support for the European Union as a governing body, saying “I’m totally in favor of it,” and for the first time as president expressed a preference for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but said he would be satisfied with whatever makes the two sides happy.

In his first comments about the U.S. nuclear arsenal since taking office on Jan. 20, Trump was asked about a December tweet in which he said the United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capacity “until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes.”

Trump said in the interview he would like to see a world with no nuclear weapons but expressed concern that the United States has “fallen behind on nuclear weapon capacity.”

“I am the first one that would like to see ... nobody have nukes, but we’re never going to fall behind any country even if it’s a friendly country, we’re never going to fall behind on nuclear power.

“It would be wonderful, a dream would be that no country would have nukes, but if countries are going to have nukes, we’re going to be at the top of the pack,” Trump said.

Russia has 7,000 warheads and the United States, 6,800, according to the Ploughshares Fund, an anti-nuclear group.

“The history of the Cold War shows us that no one comes out ‘on the top of the pack’ of an arms race and nuclear brinkmanship,” said Daryl Kimball, executive director of the independent Arms Control Association non-profit group.

“Russia and the United States have far more weapons than is necessary to deter nuclear attack by the other or by another nuclear-armed country,’ he said.

The new strategic arms limitation treaty, known as New START, between the United States and Russia requires that by February 5, 2018, both countries must limit their arsenals of strategic nuclear weapons to equal levels for 10 years.

The treaty permits both countries to have no more than 800 deployed and non-deployed land-based intercontinental and submarine-launched ballistic missile launchers and heavy bombers equipped to carry nuclear weapons, and contains equal limits on other nuclear weapons.

Analysts have questioned whether Trump wants to abrogate New START or would begin deploying other warheads.

In the interview, Trump called New START “a one-sided deal.”

“Just another bad deal that the country made, whether it’s START, whether it’s the Iran deal ... We’re going to start making good deals,” he said.

“WE’RE VERY ANGRY”

The United States is in the midst of a $1 trillion, 30-year modernization of its aging ballistic missile submarines, bombers and land-based missiles, a price tag that most experts say the country cannot afford.

Trump also complained that the Russian deployment of a ground-based cruise missile is in violation of a 1987 treaty that bans land-based American and Russian intermediate-range missiles.

“To me it’s a big deal,” Trump said.

Asked if he would raise the issue with Putin, Trump said he would do so “if and when we meet.” He said he had no meetings scheduled as of yet with Putin.

Speaking from behind his desk in the Oval Office, Trump expressed concern about North Korea’s ballistic missile tests and said accelerating a missile defense system for U.S. allies Japan and South Korea was among many options available.

“There’s talks of a lot more than that,” Trump said, when asked about the missile defense system. “We’ll see what happens. But it’s a very dangerous situation, and China can end it very quickly in my opinion.”

China has made clear that it opposes North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and has repeatedly called for denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and a return to negotiations between Pyongyang and world powers.

But efforts to change Pyongyang’s behavior through sanctions have historically failed, largely because of China’s fear that severe measures could trigger a collapse of the North Korean state and send refugees streaming across their border.

Trump’s meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe earlier this month in Florida was interrupted by a ballistic missile launch by North Korea.

Trump did not completely rule out possibly meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at some point in the future under certain circumstances but suggested it might be too late.

“It’s very late. We’re very angry at what he’s done, and frankly this should have been taken care of during the Obama administration,” he said.

According to Japanese news reports, the Japanese government plans to start debate over the deployment of a U.S. missile defense system known as the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, and the land-based Aegis Ashore missile defense system to improve its capability to counter North Korean ballistic missiles.

The strength of Trump’s remarks in favor of the EU took some Brussels officials by surprise after his support for Britain’s vote last summer to exit from the EU.

“I’m totally in favor of it,” Trump said. “I think it’s wonderful. If they’re happy, I’m in favor of it.”

Statements by him and others in his administration have suggested to Europeans that he sees little value in the Union as such, which Trump last month called a “vehicle for Germany.”

(This story corrects number of Russian, U.S. warheads in paragraph 8, adds full name of Korean leader in paragraph 26.)Americans are divided in how much they think Donald Trump has accomplished in the first weeks of his presidency, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds, even as a plurality say they think he’s moved quickly to make changes in policy.

Forty-three percent say he’s accomplished a good amount or a great deal since taking office, and another 43 percent say he’s accomplished not very much, or that he’s accomplished little or nothing.

By a 7-point margin, 36 percent to 29 percent, Americans say Trump has achieved more than former President Barack Obama had at this point in his presidency.

A 46 percent plurality say Trump has made policy changes too quickly since becoming president, while 30 percent say he’s been moving at the right speed, and 10 percent that he hasn’t been moving quickly enough.

Most Americans who voted for Trump in last year’s election are happy with how much he’s done so far. A 62 percent majority of Trump voters say he’s made policy changes at about the right speed, with 15 percent saying he’s moved too fast and 19 percent that he hasn’t moved quickly enough. Eighty-seven percent believe he’s achieved a good amount or a great deal since taking office. Just over half say Trump has accomplished more than they expected him to at this point, while another 39 percent see him as having achieved about as much as they expected.

In contrast, 84 percent of voters who supported Hillary Clinton say that Trump has moved too quickly to institute policy changes. At the same time, 80 percent say he’s achieved not very much, or little to nothing.

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Feb. 16-17 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

The Huffington Post has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls.You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. Data from all HuffPost/YouGov polls can be found here. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.While it may feel like the United States is in a troubling and chaotic political moment, Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg doesn’t think it’s inescapable.

In an interview broadcast on BBC Newsnight on Thursday, Ginsburg shied away from addressing Donald Trump’s presidency but struck a hopeful tone about some of the issues his administration has divisive stances on, including immigration, women’s rights and the press.

“I am optimistic in the long run,” she said. “There was a great man who once said that the true symbol of the United States is not the bald eagle. It is the pendulum. And when the pendulum swings too far in one direction it will go back.”

While things look bleak, she believes the record levels of activism at events like last month’s Women’s March, which may have been the largest protest in U.S. history, bode well for the future.

[W]e are not experiencing the best times, but there is reason to hope that that we will see a better day." Ruth Bader Ginsburg

“[T]here’s hope in seeing how the public is reacting to it,” she said. “The Women’s March ― I’ve never seen such a demonstration, both the numbers and the rapport of the people in that crowd. There was no violence; it was orderly. So yes, we are not experiencing the best times, but there is reason to hope that that we will see a better day.”

Ginsburg noted that the U.S. has emerged from dark chapters in its history, like the imprisonment of Japanese Americans during World War II.

“That was a dreadful mistake,” she said. “It took a long time for the United States to realize how dreadful it was. But ultimately the president acknowledged that there was no reason to intern people of Japanese ancestry and Congress passed a bill providing compensation for the people who were interned or their survivors.”

And the media is instrumental in holding the government accountable, she said.

“Think of what the press has done in the United States,” she said. “[The Watergate scandal] might never have come out if we didn’t have the free press that we do.”

The 83-year-old is optimistic about her own future on the Supreme Court, too.

“At my age you have to take it year by year. I know I’m OK. What will be next year?” she said.A controversial method of oil and natural gas extraction known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has resulted in thousands of spills in four states over a 10-year period, a new study finds.

Researchers at Duke University identified 6,648 fracking-related spills in Colorado, Pennsylvania, New Mexico and North Dakota between 2005 and 2014. Fracking uses a high-pressure stream of water, chemicals and sand to tap into rock formations and extract oil and gas deposits. Many of the spills in the researchers’ tally include fracking fluids, wastewater and hydrocarbons ― all of which can contain chemicals hazardous to drinking water resources.

The findings were published this week in the scientific journal Environmental Science & Technology and have escalated concerns for many environmental activists who have long opposed fracking. “We’re alarmed, but we’re not surprised [by the number of spills],” said Seth Gladstone, deputy communications director for environmental advocacy group Food and Water Watch. “We’ve seen the evidence and we’ve heard the stories about countless leaks, explosions, fires, human health effects, and employee safety issues all related to fracking.”

Fracking has been a contentious issue for environmental advocacy groups and fossil fuel corporations for nearly a decade. The Duke study found up to 16 percent of fracked oil and gas wells have spills each year.

While research has linked fracking to earthquakes and contaminated drinking water in some parts of the country, fracking proponents say the procedure is safe. Nicole Jacobs, a spokeswoman for Energy in Depth, an industry-funded research group, said the thousands of spills identified in the study are not a major concern.

“It is important to keep studies of this nature in context,” Jacobs told The Huffington Post in a statement. She pointed out that not all spills associated with the fracking process were of hazardous material. “There were freshwater spills included in the study, including the largest spill in the report, and ... a vast majority of spills are small and contained on site.”

The biggest takeaway from the study may not be the number of spills, but the way in which they are recorded, said Lauren Patterson, lead author of the Duke study and a policy associate at Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions.

Science for Nature and People Partnership A screen grab from the Science Nature and People Partnership's data visualization tool illustrates the more than 4,450 fracking spills in North Dakota between 2005 and 2014.

Currently, spill reporting requirements vary from state to state. Patterson said the report underscores the need for states to adopt uniform data collection standards to help determine how best to reduce spills.

For instance, North Dakota, an oil and gas production stronghold, reported the highest number of spills, with 4,453 incidents. Pennsylvania had the second highest rate at 1,293, followed by Colorado with 476 and New Mexico at 426.

Patterson said the disparity can be attributed in part to the states’ differing laws on spill reporting requirements, since North Dakota requires reporting smaller spills than Colorado and New Mexico do. Differences in data collection pose a challenge to regulators seeking a fuller understanding of where and when spills occur nationally.

A 2015 EPA report on fracking found just 457 spills across these states and four others between 2006 and 2012, though that report had only accounted for spills related to rock fracturing, not the full production cycle, which also includes transport and storage. Fifty percent of spills recorded in the Duke study were related to storage or pipeline leaks.

Some states aren’t explicitly required to report the cause of a leak, posing a challenge to regulators seeking to mitigate spills. Duke researchers hope their new study will prompt state lawmakers to revamp the data collection system to help regulators better understand the environmental impacts of fracking.

“Analyses like this one are so important, to define and mitigate risk to water supplies and human health,” Kate Konschnik, director of the Harvard Law School’s Environmental Policy Initiative, said in a press release. “Writing state reporting rules with these factors in mind is critical, to ensure that the right data are available ― and in an accessible format ― for industry, states and the research community.”

Lauren A Patterson/Duke University Common pathways for spills.

While fracking accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. natural gas output today, the process didn’t become common industry practice until a few years ago. In 2010, there were nearly 26,000 fracking wells across the country. By 2015, the number of wells had skyrocketed to roughly 300,000. Well proliferation is credited with creating the recent oil and gas boom in the U.S. ― much to the dismay of environmental advocacy groups.

Despite the fact that the majority of American people believe the U.S. should focus on developing renewable energy over fossil fuels, it appears the proliferation of fracking wells isn’t slowing down anytime soon. President Donald Trump said last August he supported state-level fracking bans, before reversing course the following month.

“You will get that business,” Trump told fracking executives at the Shale Insight conference in September. “You are going to like Donald Trump.”

Democratic lawmakers have accused several of Trump’s cabinet members, including former ExxonMobil CEO and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and new Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, of prioritizing fossil fuel industry interests over environmental protections.

Gladstone said it’s critical to have “up-to-date access and reporting on industry activities” under the Trump administration.

“With this new administration so deeply tied to the oil and gas industry,” said Gladstone, “it’s more important than ever at local and state levels to build power and hold our local and state officials accountable and making sure they are resisting the pro-polluter agenda.”NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. ― A few days after President Donald Trump drew rebukes for calling the media the “enemy of the American people,” his top strategist Steve Bannon showed no sign that the White House was willing to reconsider its feud with the press.

Speaking at the Conservative Political Action Conference alongside White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus on Thursday, Bannon warned the situation between the administration and the fourth estate will only get worse.

“If you think they’re going to give you your country back without a fight, you’re sadly mistaken,” Bannon said. “Every day there is going to be a fight.”

Bannon denounced the “corporatist, globalist media” for being “adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda” the president is pushing. He repeated a reference to the media as the “opposition party,” and bashed it for being “always wrong” about the workings of the administration.

Priebus agreed with the sentiment, adding that he hoped the relationship between the press and the White House would improve.

“It’s going to get worse,” Bannon said.

Bannon and Priebus laughed off reports of a power struggle between themselves, complimenting each other in their respective roles in the White House.

“I run a little hot on occasions,” Bannon said, tipping his hat to Priebus for what he said was “steady” leadership.

Bannon said a major goal of Trump’s presidency, along with renegotiating trade deals and securing the border, was the total “deconstruction of the administrative state.” He vowed that Trump would repeal hundreds of regulations imposed by Barack Obama’s administration.

“The mainstream media better understand something: All of those promises are going to be implemented,” Bannon said.The Arkansas Supreme Court ruled on Thursday that state law barred local governments from enacting ordinances banning discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity, but justices did not address the law’s constitutionality.

The unanimous decision voided anti-discrimination protections passed in 2015 in Fayetteville, a liberal city that is home to the state’s flagship university, as well as similar ordinances adopted by other local governments in the politically conservative state.

State Attorney General Leslie Rutledge, a Republican, had appealed a lower court ruling upholding the Fayetteville ordinance, which prohibited discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people in employment, hiring and other aspects of commerce.

Rutledge cited an Arkansas law forbidding cities and counties from extending nondiscrimination protections beyond those classes identified at the state level.

The legislature passed that measure in 2015 after initial attempts by Fayetteville to enact an anti-discrimination ordinance failed. Fayetteville and several other cities then passed ordinances in response to state law.

Although other state statutes against bullying and spousal abuse include gender identity and sexual orientation, the Arkansas civil rights code makes no mention of either.

In siding with Rutledge, the Supreme Court held that the state civil rights law was the controlling statute. The court said Fayetteville’s city ordinance could not stand because it created a direct inconsistency between state and municipal law.

Left undecided was whether the underlying state law passed constitutional muster. The court returned that issue to the local trial judge for consideration.

Rutledge said she was grateful for the ruling, noting that Arkansas’ law required “discrimination protection be addressed at the state level and be uniform throughout the state.”

LGBT advocates, who argue the state law banning local protections for gay and transgender people is discriminatory, said they were disappointed.

“We would have preferred to have a final outcome today, but I’m certain there will be further appellate review after the trial court rehears the case,” said Holly Dickson, a staff attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union at Little Rock.

The ACLU filed a brief in support of the Fayetteville ordinance.President Donald Trump criticized the media again on Friday while speaking at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference in National Harbor, Maryland.

Trump claimed it was wrongly reported that he called the media the “enemy of the people” last week, saying he’d actually called “fake news” the enemy. But he has branded such reputable media outlets as the The New York Times, CNN, NBC and others “fake news.”

The president argued that the First Amendment gives him “the right to criticize fake news and criticize it strongly.”

“[The media] say that we can’t criticize their dishonest coverage because of the First Amendment,” Trump said.

“I love the First Amendment. Nobody loves it better than me,” he added.

Trump also said he thinks news outlets should not use anonymous sources, despite using them himself to make claims that have been proven false.

The president’s comments were likely a thinly veiled jab at CNN. The news outlet recently wrote that the FBI had rejected a White House request to dispute reports that Trump’s campaign team had contacted Russian officials prior to the election.

Trump’s war with the media is “going to get worse,” Trump adviser Steve Bannon said Thursday at CPAC.Customs and Border Protection officers requested identity documents from passengers disembarking a domestic flight at New York City’s John F. Kennedy Airport on Wednesday.

Passenger Kelley Amadei told New York’s local NBC News station that as Delta flight 1583 was taxiing to the gate around 8:30 p.m, an attendant told travelers to get their identification documents ready for review.

Before passengers even stepped onto the jet bridge, they were met by two officers from CBP.

The incident prompted some passengers on the flight from San Francisco to share images of the ordeal online, amid increased tensions after President Donald Trump’s administration issued a wide-ranging set of orders instructing officials to quickly deport undocumented immigrants.

These are customs agents forcibly checking the ID of every passenger deplaning from Delta flight 1583 tonight at JFK. A domestic flight. pic.twitter.com/fHMgyzCjo5 — Britton Taylor (@brittontaylor) February 23, 2017

My flight from SFO to JFK. We were told we couldn't disembark without showing our "documents." pic.twitter.com/9ugQspTqeX — Anne Garrett (@annediego) February 23, 2017

In a statement that New York Times reporter Eli Rosenberg posted on Twitter, CBP said it was assisting Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in locating a person they believed may have been on the flight.

An immigration judge had ordered that person’s removal. The Washington Post reported the person was an undocumented immigrant facing a deportation order.

CBP* says in a statement that the two agents were working on behalf of ICE to assist with a removal order from an immigration judge pic.twitter.com/q0yh6x90hU — eli m. rosenberg (@emrosenberg) February 23, 2017

A CBP spokesperson told NBC News that they did not have a picture of who they were looking for, just a name. The agency “does this regularly,” the spokesperson added. Many on Twitter did not agree.

America. 2017. Now we have to show IDs to board and get off? To gate agents then ICE officers? Just want to be clear (at least for today). https://t.co/QTxpFTNGlT — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) February 23, 2017

Have seen CBP doing this when departing US for another country. Never after taking a domestic flight. https://t.co/8soqixspht — José Díaz-Briseño (@diazbriseno) February 23, 2017President Donald Trump bragged at his recent Florida rally that after a negotiating session of merely an hour he managed to shave a billion dollars off the price of a new Air Force One. The only problem is that the Air Force reportedly has no idea what he’s talking about.

“They were close to signing a $4.2 billion deal to have a new Air Force One,” Trump said Saturday. “Can you believe this? I said, ‘No way.’ I said, ‘I refuse to fly in a $4.2 billion airplane. I refuse.’”

“We got that price down by over $1 billion, and I probably haven’t spoken, to be honest with you, for more than an hour on the project,” he continued. “I got the generals in, who are fantastic. I got Boeing in. But I told Boeing, it’s not good enough. We’re not going to do it. The price is still too high.”

But Air Force spokesman Col. Pat Ryder told Bloomberg, “To my knowledge I have not been told that we have that information.” He suggested a call to the White House, which had not responded to requests as of Friday.

Trump threatened in December to cancel any contract with aircraft maker Boeing after again mentioning a $4 billion Air force One. “We want Boeing to make a lot of money, but not that much money,” he said.

The Air Force plans to replace both of its two Air Force One jets — each about 26 years old — by 2024. Boeing would replace the current 747s with modified 747-8s, which are longer, have a wider wingspan, and are capable of flying 1,000 miles farther without refueling, according to Stars and Stripes. Air Force One is essentially a flying Oval Office from which the president could run the country.

But Ryder said the price had not been determined and the new jets have yet to be designed. So it’s unclear what Trump might have been negotiating.

Boeing is now operating under an initial $172 million contract to determine basic capabilities and compatibilities of the new aircraft, according to a Boeing statement. Contracts will be awarded as early as June for design. The two unmodified aircraft that will be transformed into Air Force One will be purchased from Boeing in a separate contract, the Air Force Times has reported.

“That will give us a better idea of how much we’ll be looking at for the cost,” Ryder told Stars and Stripes.

The White House Military Office, not the Air Force, determines the Air Force One’s security and communications requirements and accommodation requirements, said Ryder. So Trump could radically reduce his own demands if he’s looking for a cheaper way to fly.

He has talked about having only one, not two, Air Force Ones.

“I don’t want to speak for the White House. But ... having two aircraft gives you the flexibility you need to ensure you are able to meet the mission requirements,” Ryder told Stars and Stripes. “Having another aircraft gives you the ability to put one into phased maintenance, for example, or if there are issues with that aircraft you have other options.”

Trump’s Defense Secretary James Mattis in January ordered a review of how to reduce the costs of Air Force One. The budget for the Air Force One program is $1.9 billion through 2019.LITTLE ROCK, Ark (Reuters) - The largest and busiest airport in Arkansas would no longer be named after the only president and first lady from the state if a bill introduced in the legislature on Thursday succeeds.

The legislation would prohibit public buildings or civil works from being named for anyone living or who served in public office in the 10 years prior to the structure’s completion.

The bill makes no mention of former President Bill Clinton or former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, for whom the Little Rock airport was re-named four years ago - as Bill and Hillary Clinton National Airport/Adams Field - but its author does not hesitate to identify its target.

“You have a president who was impeached for having an affair with an intern in the Oval Office and then disbarred,” said state Sen. Jason Rapert, the bill’s author and one of the Arkansas legislature’s most outspoken conservatives.

President Clinton was impeached in 1998 by the U.S. House of Representatives, which accused him of obstructing justice by lying under oath about a sexual relationship with a White House intern, Monica Lewinsky. Clinton was acquitted in a Senate trial the following year.

Hillary Clinton served as attorney to the city’s airport commission during her husband’s tenure as governor of Arkansas. At the conclusion of her husband’s presidency she won a Senate seat in New York.

She was appointed secretary of state by President Barack Obama, who defeated her for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination. Clinton won the nomination last year but was defeated by President Donald Trump.

Rapert, whose Senate district does not include Little Rock, said he introduced the legislation after “several Arkansans across the state” had expressed to him their “discomfort” with naming its largest airport after the controversial Clintons.

He conceded his legislation might not win approval.

“But we can prevent this sort of thing in the future,” he said.

City officials have defended re-naming the airport, although sometimes tersely.The head of the Montana Republican Party wrote an emergency plea this week warning that legislation allowing residents to cast mail-in ballots would benefit Democrats and make it more difficult for the GOP to maintain control of state politics.

At issue is legislation introduced by Montana state Sen. Steve Fitzpatrick (R) that would allow Montanans to cast mail-in ballots in a special election later this year to fill the U.S. House seat vacated by Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.), whom President Donald Trump tapped to lead the Interior Department. Fitzpatrick introduced the bill to save the state $500,000 by not requiring election judges and other officials to be hired on short notice, he told The Associated Press.

But the legislation prompted Jeff Essmann, the chair of the Montana GOP, to send Republicans an “emergency report” email on Tuesday, warning that making it easier to vote would benefit Democrats.

“All mail ballots give the Democrats an inherent advantage in close elections due to their ability to organize large numbers of unpaid college students and members of public employee unions to gather ballots by going door to door,” Essmann wrote. “Vote-by-mail is designed to increase participation rates of lower propensity voters. Democrats in Montana perform better than Republican candidates among lower propensity voters and Republicans do better among higher propensity voters.”

As states across the country debate voting measures, Essmann’s email provides a remarkably candid glimpse of a Republican official opposing a measure to make it easier to vote on the grounds it would harm his party politically.

While the current legislation only addresses one special election, Essmann warned that it could have severe consequences for the state GOP.

“I know that my position will not be popular with many fiscally conservative Republican County Commissioners or the sponsor of House Bill 305. They may be well intended, but this bill could be death of our effort to make Montana a reliably Republican state,” he wrote. “It is my job to remind us all of the long term strategic advantage that passage of this bill would provide to our Democrat opponents for control of our legislature and our statewide elected positions.”

Essmann did not immediately respond to a request for comment. On Twitter this week, he suggested that Democrats would “intercept” mail-in ballots.

The only voters being suppressed in SB305 are the ones who want to vote at the polls where the Democrats can't intercept their ballot #mtpol https://t.co/zpVYi2Knkk — Jeff Essmann (@EssmannJeff) February 23, 2017

Montana Secretary of State Corey Stapleton, a Republican, voiced similar concerns to lawmakers earlier this week and pointed to the three states that currently have mail-in balloting.

“If you look at the three states that have done it, you can see that populism and direct democracy at its best, all three states — Oregon, Washington and Colorado — they do all-mail-in ballots and they’re all marijuana-all-the-time states too,” he said, according to the Bozeman Daily Chronicle.The White House asked the FBI to publicly dispute reports about President Donald Trump’s team communicating with Russian officials during last year’s presidential campaign, CNN and The Associated Press reported Thursday.

Such communication would mark a breach in protocol intended to prevent the White House from meddling in the agency’s investigations. Per a 2007 Justice Department memo, the White House should advise the department on criminal and civil enforcement “only where it is important for the performance of the president’s duties and where appropriate from a law enforcement perspective.”

The request reportedly came earlier this month after the New York Times and CNN reported on the Trump team’s “constant” contact with Russia throughout the 2016 election. The White House denied those stories.

Pool via Getty Images

According to the reports, White House chief of staff Reince Priebus reached out to FBI Director James Comey and FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe and asked them to tell reporters that the stories weren’t true. CNN reports that Comey rejected the request because the FBI is investigating the alleged contact between Trump’s team and Russian officials.

The AP reported that a White House official would not comment when asked if the administration was concerned about the appropriateness of Priebus’ communications with McCabe. The official was not authorized to disclose the matter publicly and insisted on anonymity, AP said.

Earlier this week, Priebus called reports of the contact between Trump’s associates and Russian officials “total baloney.” In a separate interview, he said intelligence officials “assured” him the stories were inaccurate.

“The top levels of the intelligence community have assured me that that story is not only inaccurate, but it’s grossly overstated and it was wrong. And there’s nothing to it,” he told Fox News.

An FBI spokeswoman declined to comment on the reports. A White House spokeswoman did not return a request for comment.

The Trump administration and the campaign’s alleged connections to Russia, including former national security adviser Michael Flynn’s communications with the Russian ambassador to the U.S., are a subject of major scrutiny in Washington. Democrats on Capitol Hill have pushed for committee investigations in the Senate as well as an independent federal law enforcement inquiry on the matter. Some Republicans, including Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, have also called for investigating Flynn.Local officials in Santa Cruz, California, didn’t hide their disdain toward the Department of Homeland Security after a gang bust turned into an immigration raid once the federal government got involved.

Santa Cruz police and DHS jointly carried out the raid that they said targeted the MS-13 gang on Feb. 13. They arrested 10 people for suspected ties to the gang.

But DHS then detained all 10 people for immigration violations, the police said, even though police had been assured that the raid had nothing to do with immigration, Santa Cruz Police Chief Kevin Vogel said in a news conference Thursday. The detained were all eventually released.

“This has violated the trust of our community, and we cannot tell you how disappointed we are by the betrayal of the Department of Homeland Security,” Vogel said. “As a result of this betrayal of trust we will be taking a long and hard look about whether we will cooperate with this federal agency in the future.”

Yet DHS said it had warned the police department that detention was a possibility all along.

“The chief acknowledged this possibility and it was agreed that no foreign nationals would enter the Santa Cruz Police Department’s facility or their police vehicles,” James Schwab, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a statement.

This type of detention could be a sign of things to come.WHITE HOUSE REPORTEDLY ASKED FBI TO DISPUTE STORIES ABOUT RUSSIA TIES “The White House asked the FBI to publicly dispute reports about President Donald Trump’s team communicating with Russian officials during last year’s presidential campaign, CNN and The Associated Press reported Thursday. Such communication would mark a breach in protocol intended to prevent the White House from meddling in the agency’s investigations.” [HuffPost]

WHITE HOUSE OPENS THE DOOR TO CRACKDOWN ON RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA Trump’s Attorney General Jeff Sessions has been a vocal opponent of the use of recreational marijuana. [HuffPost]

STEVE BANNON DOUBLES DOWN ON MEDIA ATTACKS The top White House strategist denounced the “corporatist, globalist media” for being “adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda.” [HuffPost]

TRUMP WANTS TO MAKE NUCLEAR ARSENAL ‘TOP OF THE PACK’ “It would be wonderful, a dream would be that no country would have nukes, but if countries are going to have nukes, we’re going to be at the top of the pack,” Trump said. The president also outlined his support for the European Union in an interview with Reuters. [Reuters]

SESSIONS REVERSED OBAMA-ERA POLICY THAT CURTAILED USE OF PRIVATE PRISONS Citing the future needs of the federal correctional system. [HuffPost]

CAPTURING THE FINAL HOURS OF THE CAMP THAT LAUNCHED THE DAKOTA PIPELINE PROTESTS Photographer Josh Morgan showcases the waning hours of the largest opposition camp. [HuffPost]

KIM JONG UN’S HALF-BROTHER KILLED WITH NERVE AGENT The U.N. classifies VX, the nerve agent used, as a weapon of mass destruction. One of the suspects in the attack was also sickened by the nerve agent. [Reuters]

THIS MAP BREAKS DOWN THE AGES OF DAMS ACROSS THE COUNTRY Are there any over 50 years old in your area? [NYT]“If you need police at the meetings, that’s fine, have police at the meetings, have security at the meetings,” Sanders said. “But don’t use that as an excuse to run away from your constituents after you support repealing the Affordable Care Act, throwing 20 million people off of health insurance, doing away with preexisting conditions. If you are going to do all those things, answer the questions that your constituents have.”The 26-year-old mother of two was removed from a hospital in Forth Worth, Texas, Wednesday night and put back in detainment, where she had previously been for 15 months. ICE says they are keeping her under observation and that she has 24-hour care available.

Beltran-Hernandez faced gang violence and domestic violence in El Salvador, according to Amnesty International. She left her homeland for the U.S., where she has family. Since November 2015, however, ICE has held her in detention despite her claim to asylum.

Melissa Zuniga Sara Beltran-Hernandez is seen with one of her cousin's children in an undated photo.

Per U.S. and international law, people like Beltran-Hernandez who fear for their safety in their home country can seek asylum while their claims are reviewed. Amnesty International is demanding that Beltran-Hernandez be released while that request is under review, especially in light of her poor health.

“Sara should never have been detained this long to begin with, let alone locked up while suffering a serious medical emergency,” Eric Ferrero, a spokesman for Amnesty International USA, said in a press release. “She must get the medical care she needs immediately, and be allowed to recover with her family while her asylum claim is reviewed.”

Earlier this month, Beltran-Hernandez collapsed while in detainment. She was brought to the hospital and spent days there, unable to contact her legal team or her family. Melissa Zuniga, a paralegal on the case, said in a statement that ICE had Beltran-Hernandez “tied up from hands and ankles.”

Beltran-Hernandez’s stepfather and mother reside in New York, and her two children are in El Salvador. Her legal team is working on getting her family to her.

Raquel Beltran-Hernandez, Sara’s sister, offered more details about Sara’s condition in a statement.

“She told me that, from time to time, she feels numbness in her feet and part of her face,” Raquel said. “She told me that nothing has been [medically] checked at all, and that she is only being provided with a pill which is not helping in any way, since it is not for the frequent and strong headache she is experiencing.”

Raquel is now in Texas with Zuniga, who was recently hospitalized herself under heart attack risk. Zuniga said she is trying to find an attorney in Dallas so they can be ready if Sara gets released.

“We need an aggressive, intelligent, professional immigration attorney,” Zuniga told The Huffington Post from the hospital Friday. “They blocked my access to Sara [on Thursday]. I’m a paralegal, so I could not do much. We don’t have someone with us right now ready to accompany Raquel to jail, and we need that.”

Zuniga said that “Sara is dying” and “has been denied treatment for the last 14 days.”

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio’s office has reached out to Beltran-Hernandez’s law firm to offer support, according to the New York Daily News.

“This appears at this stage to be a dangerous and inhumane overreach by ICE,” Rosemary Boeglin, a spokeswoman for de Blasio, told the paper. “It’s this type of haphazard, callous enforcement that undermines American values and any common sense of decency.”

Melissa Zuniga Sara Beltran-Hernandez.

In a letter to the Department of Homeland Security this week, Amnesty International argued that immigration officials should use detention only as a last resort. The group also said that people with medical emergencies, like Beltran-Hernandez, should be released immediately, as they pose no flight risk.

“In the face of President [Donald] Trump’s aggressive immigration orders, we will fight to ensure that people with asylum claims are given a fair hearing and humane treatment,” Ferrero said. “People like Sara who are seeking asylum for horrific violence should not be treated like criminals while their cases are processed. We must do everything we can to ensure protection for people who are fleeing violence.”The Oklahoma attorney general’s office has asked the state’s highest court to block the release of more emails between energy companies and Scott Pruitt, the state’s former top cop who became Environmental Protection Agency chief.

The initial batch of 7,564 documents made public on Tuesday by the Wisconsin-based watchdog group Center for Media and Democracy revealed a chummy relationship between Pruitt and oil and gas players whose pollution he’s now tasked with policing as the nation’s top environmental regulator. Now the office that Pruitt occupied until the Senate approved his confirmation last Friday has requested a stay on District Court of Oklahoma County Judge Aletia Haynes Timmons’ order to release another trove of documents by next week.

“This maneuver is just more stonewalling by Team Pruitt to prevent the American people from seeing public records of national interest that should have been turned over prior to Pruitt’s confirmation as head of the EPA,” said Lisa Graves, executive director of the Center for Media and Democracy, in a statement. “Pruitt’s office had many months to provide his emails with corporate polluters, but is now complaining they don’t have enough time.”

The Oklahoma Supreme Court will consider the stay request at a hearing scheduled for Tuesday. If the court declines the request, the attorney general’s office has until March 3 to release the documents.

President Donald Trump filled his Cabinet with climate science skeptics and fossil fuel allies, moves that riled environmental groups and Democrats. Still, Pruitt’s nomination stood apart. The former Oklahoma attorney general made his national reputation suing the EPA 13 times, repeatedly joining oil, gas and coal companies in legal challenges to rules meant to curb planet-warming greenhouse gases and pollution. In 2011, he signed his name to a three-page complaint to the EPA that lawyers at Devon Energy Corporation, an oil and gas giant in Oklahoma City, wrote under his letterhead.

“We must reject as a nation the false paradigm that if you’re pro-energy, you’re anti-environment or if you’re pro-environment, you’re anti-energy,” Pruitt said during his Senate confirmation hearing last month. “I reject that.”

But so far, he has failed to make his case to environmentalists who fear his tenure will be marked by budget cuts, weak enforcement and lax treatment for corporate polluters. During his first speech to agency staff on Tuesday, Pruitt mentioned a “toxic environment” just once. He was referring to the political rhetoric wielded by his critics.Opinions of the Affordable Care Act have improved notably in recent months. Americans are split over how much President Donald Trump has accomplished in office. And many of Trump’s supporters consider the media their enemy. This is HuffPollster for Friday, February 24, 2017.

SUPPORT FOR THE ACA RISES - Kaiser Family Foundation: “As President Trump and Congress weigh repealing the Affordable Care Act, the latest Kaiser Health Tracking Poll finds more Americans viewing the law favorably than unfavorably (48% compared to 42%). This is the highest level of favorability measured in more than 60 Kaiser Health Tracking Polls conducted since 2010. The shift largely reflects more favorable views among independents, who now are more likely to view the law favorably (50%) than unfavorably (39%). Most Democrats (73%) continue to view the law favorably while most Republicans (74%) view it unfavorably. In spite of these more favorable views, the public remains divided along partisan lines on whether Congress should (47%) or should not (48%) repeal the law. At the same time, more of those who favor repeal want lawmakers to wait until the details of a replacement plan are known (28% overall) than want Congress to repeal immediately and work out the replacement’s details later (18% overall).” [KFF, full results]

Kaiser Family Foundation

Other polls show a similar trend - HuffPost Pollster’s aggregate now puts support for the health law at nearly 48 percent, the highest it’s scored since early 2009. Opinions of the ACA, which were largely negative ever since its passage in 2010, have risen above water since late last November, just after the presidential election, with the dozen most recent polls to ask about it all finding support outstripping opposition. [HuffPost Pollster chart]

Many aspects of the ACA are more popular than the law itself - HuffPollster, on a new Morning Consult/Politico survey: “Even among those who voted for President Donald Trump, there is widespread support for many of the health care law’s individual provisions. Eighty-one percent of Trump voters said Obamacare should be partially or completely repealed. But the majority said they would keep all the specific elements highlighted except ‘requiring health insurance companies to cover prescription birth control,’ ‘removing lifetime and annual limits on the amount of money health insurance companies can pay out for an individual’s care,’ and requiring nearly all Americans to have insurance.” [HuffPost]

AMERICANS SPLIT OVER HOW MUCH TRUMP HAS ACCOMPLISHED - HuffPollster: “Americans are divided in how much they think Donald Trump has accomplished in the first weeks of his presidency, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds, even as a plurality say they think he’s moved quickly to make changes in policy. Forty-three percent say he’s accomplished a good amount or a great deal since taking office, and another 43 percent say he’s accomplished not very much, or that he’s accomplished little or nothing….A 46 percent plurality say Trump has made policy changes too quickly since becoming president, while 30 percent say he’s been moving at the right speed, and 10 percent that he hasn’t been moving quickly enough.” [HuffPost]

More on Trump’s job performance:

-”’President Donald Trump’s popularity is sinking like a rock,’ said Tim Malloy, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Poll….’This is a terrible survey one month in.’” [Quinnipiac]

-”Nearly two-thirds of Americans, divided sharply along party lines, are worried that the United States will become engaged in a major war in the next four years.” [NBC]

-”Three in ten (30%) Americans say Trump should be impeached and removed from office, while nearly two-thirds (65%) disagree. Notably, a similar number of Americans supported the impeachment of Barack Obama (29%) and George W. Bush (30%), although at a much later date in their presidencies.” [PRRI]

HERE’S WHAT PARTISANS WANT FROM THEIR LEADERS IN CONGRESS - Pew Research: “As President Trump prepares for his address next week to a joint session of Congress, Republicans say they are more inclined to trust the president, rather than GOP congressional leaders, if the two sides disagree. For their part, Democrats are far more concerned that congressional Democrats will not do enough, rather than go too far, to oppose Trump….Job approval for Republican congressional leaders has increased sharply – from 19% to 34% – since September 2015. In contrast, there has been little change in Democratic leaders’ job ratings (34% then, 37% now). The rise in approval of GOP leaders is largely attributable to a turnaround among Republicans: 68% approve of GOP leaders’ performance now; only 26% did so two years ago.” [Pew, more on when Congress uses partisan language and how that study was conducted]

MOST TRUMP VOTERS CALL THE MEDIA THEIR ENEMY - HuffPollster: “A narrow majority of President Donald Trump’s supporters agree with him that the media is their enemy, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds, although most Americans overall don’t feel similarly….Most Trump voters, 51 percent, say the media is an enemy to people like them, according to the poll, with 36 percent considering the media unfriendly, and just 5 percent saying it’s friendly or an ally. Overall, 22 percent of Americans consider the media an enemy to people like them, with 19 percent saying it’s unfriendly, 21 percent that it’s friendly, and 14 percent that it’s an ally. That rating scale ― ally, friendly, unfriendly, enemy ― is one YouGov more often uses to measure Americans’ views of foreign countries rather than the Fourth Estate….Many Americans are also comfortable applying the term ‘enemy’ to describe their political opponents. Four in 10 Democrats, for instance, say they consider the GOP an enemy to people like them, and 56 percent that they consider Trump an enemy. Across the aisle, 56 percent of Republicans say that the Democratic Party is an enemy to people like them.” [HuffPost]

Do voters trust the media more than Trump? - Danielle Kurtzleben: “A new poll from Quinnipiac University shows that 52 percent of registered voters said they trust the news media more than Trump to tell them ‘the truth about important issues.’ Only 37 percent say they choose Trump….But just five days ago there was another headline: ‘Poll: Trump administration edges media in voter trust.’ That came from a Fox News poll finding that the 45 percent of people trust the Trump administration more than news reporters to ‘tell the public the truth.’ So is one poll right and one poll wrong?...One big bottom line here is that focusing on any one poll can easily be misleading….Polling trends give greater context and tell more of a story about what’s happening and why. Should Fox News and Quinnipiac continue to poll on these questions, the movement as major news events happen will be more meaningful, showing what sways people’s opinions and why. In addition, focusing too much on one poll means missing out on a bigger picture. In this case, it’s that both Trump and the media have big, big trust problems.” [NPR]

MANY YOUNG AMERICANS ARE TURNING OUT IN PROTEST - Sarah Ruiz-Grossman: “Millennials ages 18 to 30 are more likely to have gone to a protest since the election than any other age group, according to a HuffPost/YouGov poll conducted from Feb. 1 to Feb. 3. Millennials are also more likely than older groups to think protesting is an effective form of political action….Young people also rank protest as one of the two most effective political actions one can take, alongside calling or writing their representatives. Older age groups rank protests’ effectiveness below other forms of political actions that rely on more traditional, institutional channels, such as calling representatives or signing petitions.” [HuffPost]


-Claire Cain Miller and Kevin Quealy discuss a new survey of political scientists rating how democracy is doing in America. [NYT]A seriously ill young woman who held her own grilling an Arkansas senator over the Affordable Care Act at a raucous town hall meeting deep in a red state has been rewarded with a jump in donations on her internet funding site.

Kati McFarland, 25, a dual-degree student in violin performance and business at the University of Arkansas, told Republican Sen. Tom Cotton on Wednesday night that without coverage through the Affordable Care Act for a preexisting genetic condition, “I will die. That is not hyperbole. I will die.”

That started a string of questions by McFarland as she repeatedly demanded answers about the future of the health care system, triggering wild jeers and boos for the senator from the crowd of 2,000 in Springdale as Cotton continually dodged specifics on how he could ensure she would not lose health coverage.

“We are historically a Republican family. We are farming family. We are an NRA family,” explained McFarland from her wheelchair before she again stressed her desperate need for health care.

“You want to cut funding to Planned Parenthood, which does my cancer screening,” she said. “You and your party talk a lot about repeal of the ACA, but you don’t talk much about what you will replace it with. What are you going to replace it with?”

One viewer of the video of the town hall meeting posted by the Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette remarked: “Tom Cotton doesn’t care if you die. He and his family have good health coverage.” Another responded: “And we all pay for it ... Special coverage for the privileged class. Even Trump & EVERY single member of his family has it.”

Cotton repeated complaints about the Affordable Care Act — which drew boos — and assured McFarland that she would still have access to health care, but he offered no details.

“He just seemed to repeat my own question back at me,” McFarland told MSNBC later. “He kept saying, ‘If you lose your coverage today, you can still have it.’ He made no promises as to what would happen in the future, once he votes for the repeal he keeps promising.”

McFarland launched a funding appeal four months ago on the internet to raise money for her various health needs, including for insurance payments and a new wheelchair. Donations increased tenfold to over $11,000 after her town hall face-off. Most donors mentioned her showdown with Cotton.

One contributor wrote: “Thank you, Kati McFarland, for your bravery of making your personal life & struggle so public and for speaking your truth & the truth of millions of American lives damaged and cut short by the greed and heartlessness of this Republican Congress & Presidency, due to their inhumane opposition to health care being a human right.”

“Ozark Indivisible” — an organization of local activists that is part of a broader national movement — posted information about her funding site following the town hall meeting.

McFarland suffers from the incurable Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, which causes several medical complications, including dizziness, heart weakness and difficulty moving due to inflammatory arthritis. She turns 26 on Sunday, which means she is no longer eligible to be on her late parents’ health insurance policy, and will have to switch to Obamacare.

The GOP has been rocked recently by wild town hall meetings with hugely vocal critics complaining about the repeal of the Affordable Care Act and environmental protections, among many other issues. Politicians are beginning to duck out of appearances, triggering even more ire from angry constituents.WASHINGTON ― Koch Industries, one of the nation’s largest importers, is waging a campaign in Washington against a major new importation levy ― but it is doing so only on principle, the company says.

Either way, the battle puts the Kochs, who have given billions to conservative causes, at odds with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). The irony of the fight is heightened by just how close they have been in the past. It was the Kochs who pushed hardest for Ryan to be Mitt Romney’s running mate in 2012, and last year, Charles Koch was still hoping Ryan would emerge as a surprise presidential nominee even on the eve of the Republican National Convention.

The cornerstone of Ryan’s agenda is a reform of the tax code that would eliminate the current corporate tax regime and replace it with a “territorial” system that would tax imports at around 20 to 25 percent while allowing exports to flow freely. The aim is to give an advantage to U.S. manufacturers and to cut corporate taxes.

More than a hundred other countries have moved to similar systems, but it faces stiff opposition in the Senate — and from America’s big importers: Walmart, Target, Home Depot and Koch Industries.

Koch Industries, which is not thought of in the public imagination as an importer, makes the list largely for its importation of tar sands oil. In 2015, the last full year for which the Department of Energy has records, the company’s Pine Bend refinery in Minnesota imported just under 80 million barrels of tar sands oil from Canada, accounting for a quarter of all the oil imported from up north. Even though the price of tar sands oil has fallen to as low as $8 a barrel, while global crude prices are about $55 a barrel, the Kochs would end up with $640 million in imports. A 20 percent tax on $640 million in oil would cost the Kochs $128 million each year.

To put the Kochs’ importation business in context, Dole Food is considered by the Journal of Commerce to be the fourth-largest importer in the U.S. But the business press often leaves the Kochs out of such conversations. Last year, Dole pulled in $4.5 billion in revenue. Subtract from that profit and the cost of importing and distributing its fruit and other products, and you’re left with the value of the imported goods themselves — likely less than the Kochs’ $640 million in imported oil.

Koch Industries doesn’t tout Pine Bend publicly as part of its empire, but the importance to its business is hard to overstate. “This was always referred to as the crown jewel of Koch,” said one former Koch insider. “The deal that made Pine Bend refinery a part of Koch Industries was a seminal moment in the history of the company. Without Pine Bend, we probably never would have heard of Charles and David Koch, and they certainly wouldn’t be spending in elections the way they are without it.”

Acquiring Pine Bend in 1969 was “one of the most significant events in the evolution of our company,” Charles Koch wrote in his 2007 book, “The Science of Success.” It allowed the Kochs “to enter chemicals and, more recently, fibers and polymers.” The development of western Canada’s tar sands extraction industry, and the resulting pipeline boom that has become a political flashpoint at the border and on tribal lands, would have happened far differently were it not for the Koch brothers.

“Without Pine Bend, Koch Industries as you know it today does not exist. It allowed them to invest in buying and growing companies like Georgia Pacific, Molex, Invista and Koch Fertilizer,” said the Koch insider.

The volume of imports puts Koch opposition to Ryan’s importation levy into an entirely different perspective. Earlier this month, HuffPost asked Koch Industries if its opposition to the border tax would be softened by exempting oil imports. Philip Ellender, president of government and public affairs at Koch Companies Public Sector, said that if oil was carved out of the border tax, “Koch would benefit,” but they’d still oppose it on principle.

“If there is in fact a carve-out for oil ― or any industry ― we will not support it,” Ellender said. “While Koch would benefit, we are opposed to taxing consumers in order to cut our company’s taxes. We agree with Speaker Ryan on the need for comprehensive tax reform, but we do not support a border adjustment tax and his plan as currently proposed.”

But in December, when the Kochs initially announced opposition to the border tax, the messaging was a bit different, putting the focus on the manufacturing the Kochs do. “While companies like Koch who manufacture and produce many products domestically would greatly benefit in the short-term, the long-term consequences to the economy and the American consumer could be devastating,” Ellender said at the time.

David Dziok, a spokesman for Koch Industries, said this week that ultimately the Kochs would benefit from a border tax, because the tax on their imports would be passed on to consumers. “A BAT will force Americans to pay higher prices for the goods they use every single day ― from clothing to gas to groceries,” he said. “Koch Industries agrees on the need for comprehensive tax reform, but we are opposed to taxing consumers in order to cut our company’s taxes.”

But even if the company can pass on the entire increase to its consumers ― not always possible ― raising the price of gas tends to mean people will buy less gas. As fuel prices rose a decade ago, sales of gas-guzzling SUVs fell. With gas prices dropping, sales of bigger cars are on the rise. Whether the drop in demand would wash out the rise in price is impossible to predict, but a Goldman Sachs analysis of the House Republican plan predicted a 30-cent-a-gallon hike in gas prices in the short term but noted it would “likely moderate over time” as U.S. production rose and the dollar strengthened, which would drive down the price of foreign oil.

The confusion over such a basic question as whether the company would be hurt or helped, or whether its tax bill would go up or down, flows from the Kochs’ longtime insistence that their libertarian politics and their corporate self-interest are entirely unrelated. There’s glory in fighting for freedom but not in lobbying for corporate profit. People outside Washington may find it head-scratching, but maintaining this public distinction is deeply important to the Kochs, said three people who’ve worked with the company. Koch Industries and its representatives routinely refer to the brothers’ opposition to ethanol subsidies, for instance — even though they are one of the largest producers of ethanol — as evidence of the purity of their libertarian values. So lobbying that it does on public policy must be divorced from the corporate bottom line.White House press secretary Sean Spicer suggested during a press conference Thursday that the federal government may crack down on states that have legalized recreational marijuana.

Spicer explained that President Donald Trump sees the legalization of medical and recreational marijuana as two distinct issues. When it comes to medical marijuana, Spicer indicated that the president understands the importance of the drug’s availability, especially to those facing terminal diseases. But when it comes to recreational use, Spicer had a very different take, connecting recreational marijuana use to the opioid crisis currently ravaging the nation.

“There’s a big difference between [medical marijuana] and recreational marijuana and I think that when you see something like the opioid addiction crisis blossoming in so many states around this country, the last thing we should be encouraging people ― there’s still a federal law that we need to abide by when it comes to recreational marijuana and other drugs of that nature,” Spicer said.

When asked if the federal government will take action around recreational marijuana, Spicer said, “That’s a question for the Department of Justice. I do believe that you’ll see greater enforcement of it. Recreational use ... is something the Department of Justice will be looking into.”

Marijuana remains illegal under the federal Controlled Substances Act, despite statewide efforts to scale back on criminalizing the plant over the past few years. Legal recreational marijuana has been approved in eight states and Washington, D.C., which continues to ban sales, unlike the state programs. A total of 28 states have legalized marijuana for medical purposes. Former President Barack Obama’s Justice Department allowed states to forge their own way on marijuana policy with guidance urging federal prosecutors to refrain from targeting state-legal marijuana operations. But this guidance is not law and can be reversed by the Trump administration.

Spicer’s comments Thursday came moments after he addressed the White House’s controversial decision to rescind federal protections barring schools from discriminating against transgender students as a matter of “states’ rights” ― a philosophy that Trump appeared to support with regard to marijuana during his campaign, when he repeatedly said he would respect states’ positions on the issue. But following his election, Trump’s selection of Jeff Sessions as attorney general alarmed many drug policy reformers.

That’s because Sessions has long held retrograde views on marijuana and the war on drugs. During a Senate hearing last year, Sessions spoke out against weed and urged the federal government to send the message to the public that “good people don’t smoke marijuana.” He went on to criticize Obama for not speaking out more forcefully against the drug, saying that “we need grown-ups in Washington to say marijuana is not the kind of thing that ought to be legalized.” In separate comments last year, Sessions also called the legalization of marijuana “a mistake.”

Either the President is flip-flopping or his staff is, once again, speaking out of turn." Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.)

Earlier this year, during Sessions’ confirmation hearings, the former Alabama senator offered only vague answers about how he might approach the drug. While he didn’t appear to suggest there would be any radical changes to federal enforcement, he left the door open for increased federal interference.

Drug policy reformers have raised concerns that Sessions could use the FBI to crack down on marijuana operations nationwide, or direct the Drug Enforcement Administration to enforce federal prohibition outside of the jurisdiction of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. The court ruled in August that a federal rider blocks federal officials from prosecuting state-legal marijuana operators and patients. But that rider must be re-approved annually, and if it’s allowed to expire, Sessions could then order the DEA to enforce federal law nationally. He could also sue the various state governments that have set up regulatory schemes.

Spicer’s comments Thursday are also in opposition to statements from Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), a vocal proponent for reforming marijuana laws, who told The Huffington Post in November that Sessions would not interfere with states that have legalized marijuana, a position that he characterized as consistent with Trump’s.

Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.), a vocal proponent for reform of federal marijuana laws, said Spicer’s comments suggest that Trump may be “flip-flopping” on the issue.

“The President has said time and again that the decision about marijuana needs to be left to the states,” Polis said in a statement to HuffPost. “Now either the President is flip-flopping or his staff is, once again, speaking out of turn, either way these comments leave doubt and uncertainty for the marijuana industry, stifling job growth in my state. The public has spoken on recreational marijuana, we’ve seen it work in Colorado, and now is the time to lift the federal prohibition.”

Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), who launched the congressional Cannabis Caucus earlier this month along with Polis and two other congressmen, said he was “deeply disappointed” by Spicer’s remarks.

“The national prohibition of cannabis has been a failure, and millions of voters across the country have demanded a more sensible approach,” Blumenauer said. The Cannabis Caucus is a group of lawmakers dedicated to protecting the burgeoning legal weed industry.

A federal crackdown on states that have legalized marijuana is in direct opposition with what American voters have said they want. A new survey from Quinnipiac University released Thursday found that a strong majority of American voters ― 71 percent ― want the federal government to respect state marijuana laws. Majorities of Republicans, Democrats, independents and every age group polled agreed: the feds should not enforce prohibition in states that have legalized medical or recreational marijuana.

The trend of state-level legalization also reflects a broader cultural shift toward acceptance of marijuana, the most commonly used illicit substance in the United States. National support for the legalization of marijuana has risen dramatically in recent years, reaching historic highs in multiple polls just last month. States like Colorado have established regulated marijuana marketplaces, and successes there have debunked some lawmakers’ and law enforcers’ predictions that such polices would result in disaster.

Recreational use ... is something the Department of Justice will be looking into.” White House press secretary Sean Spicer

Drug policy reformers blasted Spicer’s Thursday remarks.

“If the administration is looking for ways to become less popular, cracking down on voter-approved marijuana laws would be a great way to do it,” said Tom Angell, chairman of Marijuana Majority. “On the campaign trail, President Trump clearly and repeatedly pledged that he would leave decisions on cannabis policy to the states. With a clear and growing majority of the country now supporting legalization, reneging on his promises would be a political disaster and huge distraction from the rest of the president’s agenda.”

National Cannabis Industry Association executive director Aaron Smith said it would be a “mistake” for DOJ to “overthrow the will of the voters and state governments” who have set up regulated adult-use programs.

“It would represent a rejection of the values of economic growth, limited government, and respect for federalism that Republicans claim to embrace,” Smith said.

Mason Tvert, director of communications for Marijuana Policy Project, said that while Spicer claims there’s a difference between medical and recreational marijuana, the “benefits and need for regulation” apply equally to both.

“This administration is claiming that it values states’ rights, so we hope they will respect the rights of states to determine their own marijuana policies,” Tvert added. “It is hard to imagine why anyone would want marijuana to be produced and sold by cartels and criminals rather than tightly regulated, taxpaying businesses.”

When asked for details on Spicer’s remarks, Department of Justice spokesman Peter Carr said that DOJ didn’t have “anything more to provide than what [Spicer] said at today’s briefing.”

Kevin Sabet, president of anti-legalization group Project SAM, said the current split between federal and state laws is “unsustainable” and that he was hopeful that the Trump administration’s enforcement priorities are pursued in a safe and healthy way.

“This isn’t an issue about states’ rights, it’s an issue of public health and safety for communities,” Sabet said.WASHINGTON ― The Israeli government is blocking an American citizen from taking his post with Human Rights Watch in Israel, accusing the group of engaging in “politics in the service of Palestinian propaganda.”

The 39-year-old Nobel Peace Prize-winning organization sent a request in July 2016 for its new Israel and Palestine program director, Omar Shakir, to start his assignment in October. The approval process is supposed to take 60 days, but Human Rights Watch heard nothing back until Monday.

The group received a letter from Israel’s Interior Ministry denying the work permit “on the grounds that we were not a real human rights organization,” said Shakir, a California native of Iraqi descent with a master’s degree from Georgetown and a law degree from Stanford.

The Interior Ministry cited guidance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a letter explaining its decision not to grant Human Rights Watch’s request. “The opinion received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs noted that, for some time now, this organization’s public activities and reports have engaged in politics in the service of Palestinian propaganda, while falsely raising the banner of ‘human rights,’ and therefore recommended denying the application,” the letter stated.

The Israeli government did not respond to The Huffington Post’s requests for comment.

Mohamad Torokman/Reuters Palestinian protesters gesture as they climb an Israeli barrier in the West Bank village of Bilin near Ramallah on Feb. 17, 2017.

Human Rights Watch has operated in Israel for three decades, Shakir said. The last director of the Israel and Palestine program was an Israeli national and did not need a work permit. However, previous regional directors needed and received work permits from the Israeli government, he added.

On the Israel/Palestine page on its website, Human Rights Watch criticizes Israel for “severe and discriminatory restrictions on Palestinians’ human rights” and for building “unlawful settlements” in the occupied West Bank. But it also criticizes the Palestinian Authority for arresting dissenting students and activists and Hamas security forces in Gaza for using torture.

“This decision and the spurious rationale should worry anyone concerned about Israel’s commitment to basic democratic values,” Iain Levine, who oversees Human Rights Watch’s research and reporting, said in a statement. “It is disappointing that the Israeli government seems unable or unwilling to distinguish between justified criticisms of its actions and hostile political propaganda.”

Human Rights Watch pointed to a law Israel passed last July that increased reporting requirements for organizations that support Palestinian groups and receive foreign funds, but not for those that support the expansion of Jewish settlements.

Human Rights Watch got a vote of support on Thursday from the U.S. State Department, whose acting spokesman, Mark Toner, said it strongly disagreed with Israel’s description of the group.

“HRW is a credible human rights organization and even though we do not agree with all of their assertions or conclusions, given the seriousness of their efforts, we support the importance of the work they do,” Toner said. “We reference HRW reports in our own reporting, including our annual human rights reports.”

Human Rights Watch was founded in 1978 to monitor compliance with the 1975 Helsinki Accords, which included guarantees of human rights. The nonprofit now operates in some 90 nations to report on human rights conditions. In 1997, a group it co-founded, the International Campaign to Ban Landmines, won the Nobel Peace Prize.As tyrants take control of democracies, they typically do 7 things:

1. They exaggerate their mandate to govern – claiming, for example, that they won an election by a “landslide” even after losing the popular vote. They criticize any finding that they or co-conspirators stole the election. And they repeatedly claim “massive voter fraud” in the absence of any evidence, in order to have an excuse to restrict voting by opponents in subsequent elections.

2. They turn the public against journalists or media outlets that criticize them, calling them “deceitful” and “scum,” and telling the public that the press is a “public enemy.” They hold few, if any, press conferences, and prefer to communicate with the public directly through mass rallies and unfiltered statements (or what we might now call “tweets”).

3. They repeatedly lie to the public, even when confronted with the facts. Repeated enough, these lies cause some of the public to doubt the truth, and to believe fictions that support the tyrants’ goals.

4. They blame economic stresses on immigrants or racial or religious minorities, and foment public bias or even violence against them. They threaten mass deportations, “registries” of religious minorities, and the banning of refugees.

5. They attack the motives of anyone who opposes them, including judges. They attribute acts of domestic violence to “enemies within,” and use such events as excuses to beef up internal security and limit civil liberties.

6. They appoint family members to high positions of authority. They ppoint their own personal security force rather than a security detail accountable to the public. And they put generals into top civilian posts.

7.They keep their personal finances secret, and draw no distinction between personal property and public property – profiteering from their public office.The Republican-led Arizona state Senate passed a bill on Wednesday that would permit the government to seize protesters’ assets and prosecute them under a racketeering law designed to target organized crime.

Senate Bill 1142 seeks to limit political demonstrations by expanding the definition of a “riot” to include actions that damage property, and making rioting an offense that can be prosecuted under racketeering statutes. If the measure passes in the GOP-controlled state House and is signed into law, protesting in Arizona would be on par with terrorism.

Republican lawmakers say the legislation is intended to limit the influence of paid protesters, a popular conservative conspiracy-theory scapegoat for grassroots demonstrations that have been intensifying since the election of President Donald Trump. There’s no evidence of any paid protest movement.

The legislation is written in a way that would allow protesters to be charged ― even if they don’t do anything. As the Arizona Capitol Times reports, racketeering laws permit police to arrest people for planning to commit a crime ― before anything has actually happened. Even those who don’t participate in a demonstration could be charged. The bill’s fact sheet explains that “an overt act is not required” to prove conspiracy.

The state could seize assets for restitution. As the Phoenix New Times observed: “Plan a protest, lose your house.”

Darryl Webb / Reuters A protester marches around the Arizona State Capitol's grounds in 2012 after the Supreme Court upheld a key part of Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigrants.

“The purported purpose for this bill isn’t based in reality,” Steve Kilar, the communications director for the Arizona ACLU, told HuffPost in an email. “The bill’s supporters are using the false ‘paid protestors’ argument to connect this bill to what is commonly the purpose of anti-racketeering laws: targeting the financial incentives of criminal enterprises.

“But if this bill were to pass, ‘riot’ would join ‘terrorism’ as the only racketeering crimes in Arizona that would not require a financial incentive,” Kilar said.

If this bill were to pass, ‘riot’ would join ‘terrorism’ as the only racketeering crimes in Arizona that would not require a financial incentive.

The bill’s implications for free speech apparently are of little concern to state Sen. Sonny Borrelli, the primary sponsor.

Borrelli said in comments published by the Phoenix New Times that the First Amendment is “not absolute,” and that his bill would protect “the civil liabilities of the citizens.”

It’s true that there are limits on free speech ― yelling fire in a theater, for example. Still, the ACLU isn’t sold on Borrelli’s argument.

“There’s no doubt this proposal would chill the public’s right to free speech and assembly because it could allow police and prosecutors to go after the organizers of peaceful protests if a handful of participants engage in unlawful acts,” Kilar said. “Furthermore, the conduct this bill allegedly addresses is prohibited by existing law and there’s no evidence that additional deterrence is necessary to prevent rioting or the incitement of riot.”Over 80 prominent American civil rights and faith-based groups have come out against President Donald Trump’s reported plan to designate the Muslim Brotherhood a terror organization, arguing it would provide a smokescreen to smear and persecute American Muslims and shut down important Muslim organizations.

An open letter published Thursday by the American Civil Liberties Union, the Council on American-Islamic Relations, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Brennan Center for Justice, and dozens of faith-based and social justice groups argued the terror designation could give a White House already hostile to Muslims the power to lead a “witch-hunt against Muslim society in the U.S.”

The designation, the letter states, would allow the administration to “destroy reputations and chill lawful activity,” and “runs the serious risk of stifling religious and political freedom and the ability to assist and represent Muslim communities without fear of retaliation.”

Anti-Muslim groups in the U.S. have long salivated over the prospect of designating the Muslim Brotherhood ― a culturally conservative political movement founded in Egypt to push for Islamic-based governments ― as a foreign terror organization.

For years, these groups have promoted paranoid conspiracy theories wherein the brotherhood is actively coordinating a massive, subversive plot among American Muslims to destroy the U.S. from within.

Thursday’s letter notes how right-wing groups and leaders have for years “used false ‘six degrees of separation’ accusations about the Muslim Brotherhood as a way to smear prominent Muslims, American Muslim civic and religious institutions, as well as a range of other people.”

CAIR and the Islamic Society of North America ― and everyone from Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin to conservative activist Grover Norquist ― have been baselessly accused of working for the brotherhood, most notably by anti-Muslim figurehead Frank Gaffney.

And while Gaffney’s theories were once relegated to the fringe of American politics, they now carry real currency in a Trump White House with deep ties to anti-Muslim hate groups.

A terror designation would make it illegal for anyone in the U.S. to provide “material support or resources” to or be “otherwise associated with” the brotherhood, allowing the Trump administration to target groups like CAIR and ISNA.

This would enable the government to conduct warrantless searches and to seize the assets of these organizations over the course of yearslong investigations, effectively shutting the groups down. As Thursday’s letter states, the government wouldn’t even require proof that CAIR and ISNA had “actual intent or knowledge of wrongdoing” to prosecute them.

“As a result, the potential negative impact on American Muslim civil society of false and unjust smears and investigation resulting from a terrorism designation of the Muslim Brotherhood is high,” the letter states.

The destruction of these Muslim groups, the letter contends, could leave American Muslims vulnerable to persecution.

“Muslim civil rights groups work to protect communities against discriminatory laws and policies,” it says, “a role that is critical at a time when the threat of anti-Muslim measures is extraordinarily high and hate crimes against those perceived as Muslim have soared.”

The Muslim Brotherhood, which counts millions of members across the Middle East, renounced violence decades ago, and won elections in Egypt after President Hosni Mubarak was deposed during the Arab Spring in 2011. In 2013, the group fell into disarray after Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi, a brotherhood member, was deposed.

Thursday’s letter marks the most comprehensive and organized opposition to date against Trump’s reported plan to designate the Muslim Brotherhood a terror organization.

Foreign policy and counterterror experts across the political spectrum have vocally opposed the designation. And the editorial boards of both The New York Times and The Washington Post have also come out against it. Last year, an investigation by the U.K. government determined that the brotherhood is not a terrorist organization.

There is literally not a single U.S. expert on the Muslim Brotherhood that I'm aware of who supports designating it as a terrorist group — Shadi Hamid (@shadihamid) February 9, 2017

Aside from the designation’s implications for American Muslim groups, experts have noted that it might also be illegal for the U.S. to designate a terror organization on solely ideological grounds, without evidence that it is actively committing or plotting terror attacks.

Moreover, experts have argued that the designation would not only deeply disrupt U.S. relations with Middle Eastern allies where the brotherhood or its offshoots hold some level of power, but could also increase terrorism itself.

Politico obtained a CIA memo last month noting that the terrorist designation would “fuel” extremism in the Middle East.

The designation “would probably weaken” brotherhood leaders’ arguments against violence “and provide ISIS and al-Qaeda additional grist for propaganda to win followers and support, particularly for attacks against U.S. interests,” the memo said.

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the civil rights’ groups letter against the Muslim Brotherhood terror designation.WASHINGTON ― White House press secretary Sean Spicer gave a clear indication Tuesday that the new administration will not be a forceful defender of transgender rights, saying President Donald Trump believes that issue should be left up to the states.

The Trump administration is reportedly preparing to rescind a policy issued by President Barack Obama’s administration mandating that any school that receives federal money must treat a student’s gender identity as his or her sex. Schools, for example, would therefore have to allow transgender individuals to use the restroom that corresponds to their gender identity, rather than the sex assigned to them at birth.

Spicer declined to say exactly what the administration had in the works, although he said it was an issue that the Departments of Education and Justice are addressing.

“I think there will be further guidance coming from DOJ in particular with respect to not just the executive order but also the case that’s in front of the Supreme Court,” Spicer said.

On March 28, the court is set to hear the case of Gavin Grimm, a transgender teenager who sued his school for the right to use the boys’ bathroom. The court is also expected to consider the Obama administration’s Title IX guidance.

“The president has maintained for a long time that this is a states’ rights issue and not one for the federal government,” Spicer said. “So while there will be further guidance coming out, I think that all you have to do is look at what the president’s view has been for a long time: that this is not something the federal government should be involved in. This is a states’ rights issue.”

The federal government under Obama, however, did conclude it was a federal issue. Although there are no federal civil rights protections specifically for sexual orientation and gender identity, the Departments of Education and Justice said transgender students were covered under Title IX, the statute that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex.

The policy has been on hold, however, since a judge issued an injunction in August in response to a lawsuit from more than a dozen states. The Obama administration had appealed the decision, but this month, the Trump administration said it was dropping the appeal.

“I find it obscene that Mr. Spicer would characterize the well-being, the health and the very safety of transgender young people as an issue of states’ rights,” said Eliza Byard, executive director of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network. “The fact is that no child in America should have their rights subject to their zip code.”

During the campaign, Trump said he supported North Carolina’s controversial HB2 law, which barred cities from passing protections for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer community.

This piece was updated with comment from Byard.A pig farmer confronted Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) at a town hall meeting early Tuesday morning to warn that Republicans would essentially create a giant death panel if they repealed the Affordable Care Act.

Chris Peterson, 62, told the senator that he has diabetes and that he would not be able to afford health insurance if not for the Affordable Care Act.

“You’re the man that talks about the death panel,” Peterson said at the packed town hall in Iowa Falls. “We’re gonna create one great big death panel in this country [if] people can’t afford to get insurance. Don’t repeal Obamacare, improve it.”

In 2009, Grassley helped fuel the false idea that Obamacare would create “death panels” to determine patients’ end-of-life care.

Angry constituents confront Chuck Grassley in Iowa: “If it wasn’t for Obamacare, we wouldn’t be able to afford insurance!” pic.twitter.com/vrbhbOiBMM — Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) February 21, 2017

On Tuesday, Grassley insisted that the millions of people who gained insurance under the Affordable Care Act won’t lose their coverage if the law is repealed.

“Twenty million people won’t lose because we’ve made clear that those that are [on] the exchange, the subject will continue,” he said, referring to the Obamacare online markets.

Grassley’s Tuesday town hall was the latest in a series of events this month at which constituents across the country have angrily confronted their representatives over the GOP’s vow to repeal the Affordable Care Act soon. Republicans have yet to offer an alternative health care plan.

Grassley was also pressed on his decision last year not to hold hearings on the nomination of Judge Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s pick for the Supreme Court, as well as his more recent votes to confirm Betsy DeVos as education secretary and to repeal rules blocking the mentally ill from buying guns, according to the Des Moines Register.

Zalmay Niazy stood up to say that he had worked as an interpreter for the U.S. Army in Afghanistan and had been seeking political asylum in the United States for two years. Grassley said he would help Niazy, the Des Moines Register reported.WASHINGTON ― A 25-year-old Missouri-born Army veteran who believed he was plotting a Presidents Day attack with ISIS supporters was arrested in an FBI sting, the Justice Department said Tuesday.

Robert Lorenzo Hester Jr., a U.S. citizen from Jefferson City who was taken into custody on Friday, spent several months communicating with undercover FBI agents he believed were terrorist operatives, according to an FBI affidavit. The FBI was “made aware” of Hester’s postings on social media accounts in which he said he’d “converted to Islam, expressed animus towards the United States, and posted photos of weapons and the ISIS flag,” the affidavit said. Hester allegedly described himself on one social media platform as a “Zionist Jew Pig Redneck Hunting Super Assassin” and said he wanted to get a “movement going here in Amurdikkka.”

Hester told undercover operatives the government needed to be “overthrown,” identified potential targets for attacks, and said he wanted a “global jihad,” the feds allege.

Boone County

Hester, who received a general discharge from the Army in mid-2013 after less than a year of enlistment, “attempted to provide material support to ISIS by assisting in what he believed would be a murderous terrorist bombing and gunfire attack committed in the name of the foreign terrorist organization,” the Justice Department said in a press release.

Back in October, during the FBI investigation, Hester was arrested in a grocery store parking lot by Columbia police officers, who alleged he threw a folded pocket knife through a plate-glass window. Officers said that when confronted, he reached for a handgun inside a diaper bag. Hester was released on bond 10 days after his arrest and was placed on electronic monitoring.

Hester soon began communicating with an undercover FBI agent, often using encrypted apps, authorities said. He later met with undercover FBI agents, bringing his two young children to one meeting and telling an agent he “grew up in the hood” in an effort to build a connection with a man he thought was a terrorist operative. He also told agents made-up stories that he had been locked up after he was pulled over in a car with someone who had marijuana, and that his car broke down because he believed it had been hit by gunfire.

As the plot advanced, one undercover agent provided a list of items for Hester to purchase, including batteries, duct tape, wire and roofing nails. Hester said he didn’t have enough money, so the agent gave Hester $20. Hester, who promised to repay the money, purchased many of the items on Feb. 1, according to the charges.

Hester later said he’d have money to buy ammunition once he got his tax refund. He said he wanted to be smarter than the Boston Marathon bombers and advocated they “lay low” to avoid detection.Evidence is mounting that medical marijuana can alleviate chronic pain in many patients. But some doctors remain wary.

The Pew Charitable Trusts Dr. Howard Shapiro discusses a patient’s progress with assistant Alexandra Lotito at his midtown Manhattan office. Shapiro says marijuana shows promise as an alternative to opioid painkillers and other prescription drugs in treating a wide range of conditions.

By Christine Vestal

NEW YORK — After a 12-year battle with debilitating abdominal conditions that forced her to stop working, marijuana has helped Lynn Sabulski feel well enough to look for a job.

Sabulski is among nearly 14,000 patients in New York state who are certified to use medical marijuana for one of 10 conditions, including her primary diagnosis, inflammatory bowel disease. Marijuana doesn’t address her underlying disease, but it does relieve her painful symptoms.

Nationwide, an estimated 1.4 million patients in 28 states and the District of Columbia use legal medical marijuana for a varying list of conditions. A much smaller number of patients in 16 states use limited extracts of the plant, primarily to treat seizure disorders.

In the midst of an opioid crisis, some medical practitioners and researchers believe that greater use of marijuana for pain relief could result in fewer people using the highly addictive prescription painkillers that led to the epidemic.

A 2016 study by researchers at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health found that states with medical marijuana laws had 25 percent fewer opioid overdose deaths than states that do not have medical marijuana laws. And another study published in Health Affairs last year found that prescriptions for opioid painkillers such as OxyContin, Vicodin and Percocet paid for by Medicare dropped substantially in states that adopted medical marijuana laws.

In December, the New York Health Department said it would start allowing some patients with certain types of chronic pain to use marijuana as long as they have tried other therapies. The state’s original medical marijuana law, along with those in Connecticut, Illinois, New Hampshire and New Jersey, did not include chronic pain as an allowable condition for marijuana use, in part over concerns that such a broad category of symptoms could result in widespread and potentially inappropriate use of the controversial medicine.

Advocates for greater use of medical marijuana argue that including chronic pain as an allowable condition could result in even further reductions in dangerous opioid use.

But some physicians remain cautious about recommending the botanical medicine as a pain management tool.

Scant Research

Dr. Jane Ballantyne, a pain specialist at the University of Washington and president of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, which promotes the use of alternatives to opioids for chronic pain, said she does not recommend that her patients try marijuana.

“There is no doubt marijuana is much safer than opiates. So we don’t discourage its use.” But in general, she said, “non-drug treatments are far more helpful than any drug treatment, and marijuana is a drug.”

At Mount Sinai Hospital here in the city, Dr. Houman Danesh, director of integrative pain management, suggests patients try physical therapy, yoga, acupuncture, stem cell therapy, nutrition counseling, hypnosis and behavioral health counseling before resorting to opioids or any other medications. He said lack of sufficient research to back up marijuana’s safety and efficacy has kept him from adding it to his pain management toolkit, but he doesn’t rule it out in the near future.

In January, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine released a review of 10,000 medical marijuana studies published since 1999, showing that substantial evidence supports the use of marijuana or its extracts for the treatment of chronic pain. Existing research also supports its effectiveness in treating multiple-sclerosis-related muscle spasms and chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, according to the literature review. But the study cautioned that both the positive and negative health effects of marijuana need to be studied further.

Historically, research on marijuana has been hamstrung by the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, which classifies marijuana along with heroin and LSD as illegal substances with “no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse.” As a result, the supply of legal marijuana that can be studied and federal funds to pursue academic research are limited.

Slow and Cautious

Since 1996, when California voters ushered in the first law legalizing medical marijuana, the progression of states adopting similar laws has been slow and steady. California’s law was only one paragraph long and it didn’t limit the use of marijuana to any specific conditions. Since then, most state laws have included more detail about marijuana’s allowable uses.

Enacted in 2014, New York’s medical marijuana law is considered among the most cautious in the nation. Americans for Safe Access, a patient advocacy group, gives the state a letter grade of C when it comes to balancing product safety and ease of access to the emerging medicine.

New York allows doctors to certify patients to purchase marijuana at a limited number of highly regulated dispensaries — 20 statewide, including four in New York City — for the treatment of 10 conditions: cancer, HIV infection or AIDS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or ALS, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord damage, epilepsy, inflammatory bowel disease, neuropathies and Huntington’s disease.

In the fall, after two years of operation, the state health agency declared its medical marijuana program a success and expanded its rules to allow nurse practitioners to certify patients for marijuana use. The state also approved home delivery for patients too ill to travel and announced it would certify more manufacturers of marijuana extracts to increase the supply of tinctures, liquid capsules, sprays and vape cartridges available for patients who rely on them.

Remarkable Results

Sibulski’s physician, Dr. Howard Shapiro, started certifying patients for marijuana about a year ago and quickly became a believer. He’s one of only 371 doctors out of nearly 33,000 in the city’s five boroughs registered to certify patients for medical marijuana. Statewide, only 863 out of roughly 96,000 physicians have signed up for the program.

Technically, doctors can’t prescribe marijuana for their patients because federal law prohibits it. But under New York and most other state laws, doctors can verify that patients are suffering from an allowable condition, which authorizes patients to purchase marijuana on their own at a regulated dispensary. So far, Medicaid, Medicare and most private insurance do not cover medical marijuana, so patients must pay out of pocket.

As a primary care doctor who takes a holistic approach to medicine, Shapiro said trying medical marijuana was a natural for him. But he said he worried that “a bunch of druggies would start showing up.” Instead, he said the patients he began seeing were all very sick and none of them appeared to be seeking drugs for fun. The improvement he saw in those first patients was remarkable, he said.

“I really think medical marijuana is the drug of the future,” Shapiro said. “We’re going to find out that it does a lot of things we already think it can do, but don’t have scientific studies to prove it.”

Out of 109 patients he’s seen over the past year, all but a handful reported substantial improvement in their pain and other symptoms within a month or two of using medical marijuana, he said.

For Shapiro’s patients, the cost of marijuana treatment ranges from $300 to $400 a month, depending on their level of use. Sibulski said her monthly bill is about $400.

“I urge my patients to purchase only a two-week supply at first, so they don’t waste money on a dose that may not be effective,” Shapiro said. Most patients start out with a 1-to-1 ratio of THC, the intoxicating component of marijuana, to CBD, the second major component, which has proven to be medically effective for a range of conditions.

Patients typically need to work with the dispensary to adjust their ratio so that the medication alleviates their symptoms but doesn’t get them too high to function, Shapiro explained. It’s a trial-and-error process, he said.

Most marijuana patients take a tincture or liquid capsule every four to six hours during the day and use a vape pen to inhale a faster-acting dose of marijuana extract when they have breakthrough symptoms. Sibulski said she uses a vape pen before she gets out of bed in the morning, because it almost instantly wards off her abdominal spasms. She then takes an oral dose, which kicks in within one to two hours.

Last Resort

At 36, when she quit her job last year, Sibulski said she feared she would be permanently disabled and never be able to return to work. She had seen multiple specialists and tried a medicine cabinet full of prescribed drugs, including OxyContin and muscle relaxers, to relieve her pain and abdominal spasms, but nothing worked.

Once she was unemployed, Sibulski said she experimented on her own with street-purchased marijuana and found that it worked better than anything else she had tried. But she couldn’t control the potency of what she was smoking, so sometimes it worked and sometimes it didn’t, and sometimes it made her too high to function.

Still, she felt well enough to return to work and started applying for jobs. That’s when she realized she couldn’t pass a drug test, which she said most employers she spoke to required.

In December, Sibulski found Shapiro through a Yelp listing and brought him her medical files so he could consider certifying her to use pharmaceutical-grade marijuana. Working with him and a pharmacist at a dispensary in Queens, she said she found the perfect combination of THC and CBD to keep her symptoms at bay while allowing her to be highly functional.

“It’s been life-changing,” she said. As a certified marijuana patient, she’s hoping potential employers will waive that part of the drug test.

Dr. Stephen Dahmer, a primary care doctor and chief medical officer of Vireo Health of New York, one of five state-approved medical marijuana producers, said Sibulski’s story is typical.

“Many marijuana patients are what we call the ‘intractables.’ They try everything the medical system has to offer, and they finally find relief from medical cannabis,” he said.How We Got Here

Cross-posted with TomDispatch.com

The United States has already lost ― its war for the Middle East, that is. Having taken my own crack at combat soldiering in both Iraq and Afghanistan, that couldn’t be clearer to me. Unfortunately, it’s evidently still not clear in Washington. Bush’s neo-imperial triumphalism failed. Obama’s quiet shift to drones, Special Forces, and clandestine executive actions didn’t turn the tide either. For all President Trump’s bluster, boasting, and threats, rest assured that, at best, he’ll barely move the needle and, at worst… but why even go there?

At this point, it’s at least reasonable to look back and ask yet again: Why the failure? Explanations abound, of course. Perhaps Americans were simply never tough enough and still need to take off the kid gloves. Maybe there just weren’t ever enough troops. (Bring back the draft!) Maybe all those hundreds of thousands of bombs and missiles just came up short. (So how about lots more of them, maybe even a nuke?)

Lead from the front. Lead from behind. Surge yet again… The list goes on ― and on and on.

And by now all of it, including Donald Trump’s recent tough talk, represents such a familiar set of tunes. But what if the problem is far deeper and more fundamental than any of that?

Here our nation stands, 15-plus years after 9/11, engaged militarily in half a dozen countries across the Greater Middle East, with no end in sight. Perhaps a more critical, factual reading of our recent past would illuminate the futility of America’s tragic, ongoing project to somehow “destroy” terrorism in the Muslim world.

The standard triumphalist version of the last 100 or so years of our history might go something like this: in the twentieth century, the United States repeatedly intervened, just in the nick of time, to save the feeble Old World from militarism, fascism, and then, in the Cold War, communism. It did indeed save the day in three global wars and might have lived happily ever after as the world’s “sole superpower” if not for the sudden emergence of a new menace. Seemingly out of nowhere, “Islamo-fascists” shattered American complacency with a sneak attack reminiscent of Pearl Harbor. Collectively the people asked: Why do they hate us? Of course, there was no time to really reflect, so the government simply got to work, taking the fight to our new “medieval” enemies on their own turf. It’s admittedly been a long, hard slog, but what choice did our leaders have? Better, after all, to fight them in Baghdad than Brooklyn.

What if, however, this foundational narrative is not just flawed but little short of delusional? Alternative accounts lead to wholly divergent conclusions and are more likely to inform prudent policy in the Middle East.

Let’s reconsider just two key years for the United States in that region: 1979 and 2003. America’s leadership learned all the wrong “lessons” from those pivotal moments and has intervened there ever since on the basis of some perverse version of them with results that have been little short of disastrous. A more honest narrative of those moments would lead to a far more modest, minimalist approach to a messy and tragic region. The problem is that there seems to be something inherently un-American about entertaining such thoughts.

1979 Revisited

Through the first half of the Cold War, the Middle East remained a sideshow. In 1979, however, all that changed radically. First, rising protests against the brutal police state of the American-backed Shah of Iran led to regime collapse, the return of dissident ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, and the declaration of an Islamic Republic. Then Iranian students stormed the U.S. embassy in Tehran, holding 52 hostages for more than 400 days. Of course, by then few Americans remembered the CIA-instigated coup of 1953 that had toppled a democratically elected Iranian prime minister, preserved Western oil interests in that country, and started both lands on this path (though Iranians clearly hadn’t forgotten). The shock and duration of the hostage crisis undoubtedly ensured that Jimmy Carter would be a one-term president and ― to make matters worse ― Soviet troops intervened in Afghanistan to shore up a communist government there. It was quite a year.

The alarmist conventional narrative of these events went like this: the radical mullahs running Iran were irrational zealots with an inexplicable loathing for the American way of life. As if in a preview of 9/11, hearing those chants against “the Great Satan,” Americans promptly began asking with true puzzlement: Why do they hate us? The hostage crisis challenged world peace. Carter had to do something. Worse yet, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan represented blatant conquest and spotlighted the possibility of Red Army hordes pushing through to Iran en route to the Persian Gulf’s vast oil reserves. It might prove the opening act of the long awaited Soviet scheme for world domination or a possible path to World War III.

Misinformed by such a tale that they repeatedly told themselves, Washington officials then made terrible choices in the Middle East. Let’s start with Iran. They mistook a nationalist revolution and subsequent civil war within Islam for a singular attack on the U.S.A. With little consideration of genuine Iranian gripes about the brutal U.S.-backed dynasty of the Shah or the slightest appreciation for the complexity of that country’s internal dynamics, they created a simple-minded but convenient narrative in which the Iranians posed an existential threat to this country. Little has changed in almost four decades.

The Iranian revolution and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan were combined into a tale of horror that would lead to the permanent militarization of U.S. policy in the Middle East.

Then, though few Americans could locate Afghanistan on a map, most accepted that it was indeed a country of vital strategic interest. Of course, with the opening of their archives, it’s clear enough now that the Soviets never sought the worldwide empire we imagined for them, especially not by 1979. The Soviet leadership was, in fact, divided over the Afghan affair and intervened in Kabul in a spirit more defensive than aggressive. Their desire or even ability to drive towards the Persian Gulf was, at best, a fanciful American notion.

Nonetheless, the Iranian revolution and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan were combined into a tale of horror that would lead to the permanent militarization of U.S. policy in the Middle East. Remembered today as a dove-in-chief, in his 1980 State of the Union address President Carter announced a decidedly hawkish new doctrine that would come to bear his name. From then on, he said, the U.S. would consider any threat to Persian Gulf oil supplies a direct threat to this country and American troops would, if necessary, unilaterally intervene to secure the region.

The results will seem painfully familiar today: almost immediately, Washington policymakers began to seek military solutions to virtually every problem in the Middle East. Within a year, the administration of President Ronald Reagan would, for instance, support Iraqi autocrat Saddam Hussein’s ruthless invasion of Iran, ignoring his more vicious antics and his proclivity for gassing his own people.

Soon after, in 1983, the military created the United States Central Command (headquarters: Tampa, Florida) with specific responsibility for the Greater Middle East. Its early war plans demonstrated just how wildly out of touch with reality American planners already were by then. Operational blueprints, for instance, focused on defeating Soviet armies in Iran before they could reach the Persian Gulf. Planners imagined U.S. Army divisions crossing Iran, itself in the midst of a major war with Iraq, to face off against a Soviet armored juggernaut (just like the one that was always expected to burst through Europe’s Fulda Gap). That such an assault was never coming, or that the fiercely proud Iranians might object to the militaries of either superpower crossing their territories, figured little in such early plans that were monuments to American arrogance and naïveté.

From there, it was but a few short steps to the permanent “defensive” basing of the Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain or later the stationing of U.S. troops near the holy cities of Mecca and Medina to protect Saudi Arabia from Iraqi attack. Few asked how such forces in the heart of the Middle East would play on the Arab street or corroborate Islamist narratives of “crusader” imperialism.

Worse yet, in those same years the CIA armed and financed a grab bag of Afghan insurgent groups, most of them extreme Islamists. Eager to turn Afghanistan into a Soviet “Vietnam,” no one in Washington bothered to ask whether such guerrilla outfits conformed to our purported principles or what the rebels would do if they won. Of course, the victorious guerrillas contained foreign fighters and various Arab supporters, including one Osama bin Laden. Eventually, the excesses of the well-armed but morally bankrupt insurgents and warlords in Afghanistan triggered the formation and ascension of the Taliban there, and from one of those guerrilla outfits came a new organization that called itself al-Qaeda. The rest, as they say, is history, and thanks to Chalmers Johnson’s appropriation of a classic CIA term of spy craft, we now know it as blowback.

That was a major turning point for the U.S. military. Before 1979, few of its troops had served in the region. In the ensuing decades, America bombed, invaded, raided, sent its drones to kill in, or attacked Iran, Lebanon, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Somalia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Iraq again (and again), Somalia (again and again), Libya again, Iraq once more, and now Syria as well. Before 1979, few ― if any ― American military personnel died in the Greater Middle East. Few have died anywhere else since.

2003 and After: Fantasies and Reality

Who wouldn’t agree that the 2003 invasion of Iraq signified a major turning point both in the history of the Greater Middle East and in our own? Nonetheless, its legacy remains highly contested. The standard narrative goes like this: as the sole remaining superpower on the planet after the implosion of the Soviet Union in 1991, our invincible military organized a swift and convincing defeat of Saddam Hussein’s Iraq in the first Gulf War. After 9/11, that same military launched an inventive, swift, and triumphant campaign in Afghanistan. Osama bin Laden escaped, of course, but his al-Qaeda network was shattered and the Taliban all but destroyed.

Naturally, the threat of Islamic terror was never limited to the Hindu Kush, so Washington “had” to take its fight against terror global. Admittedly, the subsequent conquest of Iraq didn’t exactly turn out as planned and perhaps the Arabs weren’tquite ready for American-style democracy anyway. Still, the U.S. was committed, had shed blood, and had to stay the course, rather than cede momentum to the terrorists. Anything less would have dishonored the venerated dead. Luckily, President George W. Bush found an enlightened new commander, General David Petraeus, who, with his famed “surge,” snatched victory, or at least stability, from the jaws of defeat in Iraq. He had the insurgency all but whipped. Then, just a few years later, “spineless” Barack Obama prematurely pulled American forces out of that country, an act of weakness that led directly to the rise of ISIS and the current nightmare in the region. Only a strong, assertive successor to Obama could right such gross errors.

It’s a riveting tale, of course, even if it is misguided in nearly every way imaginable. At each turn, Washington learned the wrong lessons and drew perilous conclusions. At least the first Gulf War ― to George H.W. Bush’s credit ― involved a large multinational coalition and checked actual Iraqi aggression. Instead of cheering Bush the Elder’s limited, prudent strategy, however, surging neoconservatives demanded to know why he had stopped short of taking the Iraqi capital, Baghdad. In these years (and for this we can certainly thank Bush, among others), Americans ― Republicans and Democrats alike ― became enamored with military force and came to believe that it could solve just about any problem in that region, if not the world.

This would prove a grotesque misunderstanding of what had happened. The Gulf War had been an anomaly. Triumphalist conclusions about it rested on the shakiest of foundations. Only if an enemy fought exactly as the U.S. military preferred it to do, as indeed Saddam’s forces did in 1991 ― conventionally, in open desert, with outdated Soviet equipment ― could the U.S. expect such success. Americans drew another conclusion entirely: that their military was unstoppable.

The same faulty assumptions flowed from Afghanistan in 2001. Information technology, Special Forces, CIA dollars (to Afghan warlords), and smart bombs triggered victory with few conventional foot soldiers needed. It seemed a forever formula and influenced both the hasty decision to invade Iraq, and the irresponsibly undersized force structure deployed (not to speak of the complete lack of serious preparation for actually occupying that country). So powerful was the optimism and jingoism of invasion proponents that skeptics were painted as unpatriotic turncoats.

Those in Washington never adequately understood the essential conundrum of forced regime change in Iraq.

Then things turned ugly fast. This time around, Saddam’s army simply melted away, state institutions broke down, looting was rampant, and the three major communities of Iraq ― Sunni, Shia, and Kurd ― began to battle for power. The invaders never received the jubilant welcome predicted for them by Bush administration officials and supportive neocons. What began as a Sunni-based insurgency to regain power morphed into a nationalist rebellion and then into an Islamist struggle against Westerners.

Nearly a century earlier, Britain had formed Iraq from three separate Ottoman imperial provinces ― Baghdad, Basra, and Mosul. The 2003 invasion blew up that synthetic state, held together first by British overlords and then by Saddam’s brutal dictatorship. American policymakers seemed genuinely surprised by all this.

Those in Washington never adequately understood the essential conundrum of forced regime change in Iraq. “Democracy” there would inevitably result in Shia majority dominance of an artificial state. Empowering the Shia drove the Sunni minority ― long accustomed to power ― into the embrace of armed, motivated Islamists. When societies fracture as Iraq’s did, often enough the worst among us rise to the occasion. As the poet William Butler Yeats so famously put it, “Things fall apart; the center cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, the blood-dimmed tide is loosed… The best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.”

Furthermore, the invasion played directly into Osama bin Laden’s hands, fueling his narrative of an American “war on Islam.” In the process, the U.S. also destabilized Iraq’s neighbors and the region, spreading extremists to Syria and elsewhere.

That David Petraeus’s surge “worked” is perhaps the greatest myth of all. It was true that the steps he took resulted in a decrease in violence after 2007, largely because he paid off the Sunni tribes, not because of the modest U.S. troop increase ordered from Washington. By then, the Shia had already won the sectarian civil war for Baghdad, intensifying Sunni-Shia residential segregation there and so temporarily lessening the capacity for carnage.

That post-surge “calm” was, however, no more than a tactical pause in an ongoing regional sectarian war. No fundamental problems had been resolved in post-Saddam Iraq, including the nearly impossible task of integrating Sunni and Kurdish minorities into a coherent national whole. Instead, Washington had left a highly sectarian Shia strongman, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, in control of the government and internal security forces, while al-Qaeda in Iraq, or AQI (nonexistent prior to the invasion), never would be eradicated. Its leadership, further radicalized in U.S. Army prisons, bided its time, waiting for an opportunity to win back Sunni fealty.

Luckily for AQI, as soon as the U.S. military was pulled out of the country, Maliki promptly cracked down hard on peaceful Sunni protests. He even had his Sunni vice president sentenced to death in absentia under the most questionable of circumstances. Maliki’s ineptitude would prove an AQI godsend.

Islamists, including AQI, also took advantage of events in Syria. Autocrat Bashar al-Assad’s brutal repression of his own protesting Sunni majority gave them just the opening they needed. Of course, the revolt there might never have occurred had not the invasion of Iraq destabilized the entire region. In 2014, the former AQI leaders, having absorbed some of Saddam’s cashiered officers into their new forces, triumphantly took a series of Iraqi cities, including Mosul, sending the Iraqi army fleeing. They then declared a caliphate in Iraq and Syria. Many Iraqi Sunnis naturally turned to the newly established “Islamic State” (ISIS) for protection.

Mission (Un)Accomplished!

It’s hardly controversial these days to point out that the 2003 invasion (aka Operation Iraqi Freedom), far from bringing freedom to that country, sowed chaos. Toppling Saddam’s brutal regime tore down the edifice of a regional system that had stood for nearly a century. However inadvertently, the U.S. military lit the fire that burned down the old order.

As it turned out, no matter the efforts of the globe’s greatest military, no easy foreign solution existed when it came to Iraq. It rarely does. Unfortunately, few in Washington were willing to accept such realities. Think of that as the twenty-first-century American Achilles’ heel: unwarranted optimism about the efficacy of U.S. power. Policy in these years might best be summarized as: “we” have to do something, and military force is the best ― perhaps the only ― feasible option.

Has it worked? Is anybody, including Americans, safer? Few in power even bother to ask such questions. But the data is there. The Department of State counted just 348 terrorist attacks worldwide in 2001 compared with 11,774 attacks in 2015. That’s right: at best, America’s 15-year “war on terror” failed to significantly reduce international terrorism; at worst, its actions helped make matters 30 times worse.

Recall the Hippocratic oath: “First do no harm.” And remember Osama bin Laden’s stated goal on 9/11: to draw conventional American forces into attritional campaigns in the heart of the Middle East. Mission accomplished!

In today’s world of “alternative facts,” it’s proven remarkably easy to ignore such empirical data and so avoid thorny questions. Recent events and contemporary political discourse even suggest that the country’s political elites now inhabit a post-factual environment; in terms of the Greater Middle East, this has been true for years.

It couldn’t be more obvious that Washington’s officialdom regularly and repeatedly drew erroneous lessons from the recent past and ignored a hard truth staring them in the face: U.S. military action in the Middle East has solved nothing. At all. Only the government cannot seem to accept this. Meanwhile, an American fixation on one unsuitable term ― “isolationism” ― masks a more apt description of American dogma in this period: hyper-interventionism.

As for military leaders, they struggle to admit failure when they ― and their troops ― have sacrificed so much sweat and blood in the region. Senior officers display the soldier’s tendency to confuse performance with effectiveness, staying busy with being successful. Prudent strategy requires differentiating between doing a lot and doing the right things. As Einstein reputedly opined, “Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.”

A realistic look at America’s recent past in the Greater Middle East and a humbler perspective on its global role suggest two unsatisfying but vital conclusions. First, false lessons and misbegotten collective assumptions contributed to and created much of today’s regional mess. As a result, it’s long past time to reassess recent history and challenge long-held suppositions. Second, policymakers badly overestimated the efficacy of American power, especially via the military, to shape foreign peoples and cultures to their desires. In all of this, the agency of locals and the inherent contingency of events were conveniently swept aside.

So what now? It should be obvious (but probably isn’t in Washington) that it’s well past time for the U.S. to bring its incessant urge to respond militarily to the crisis of the moment under some kind of control. Policymakers should accept realistic limitations on their ability to shape the world to America’s desired image of it.

Consider the last few decades in Iraq and Syria. In the 1990s, Washington employed economic sanctions against Saddam Hussein and his regime. The result: tragedy to the tune of half a million dead children. Then it tried invasion and democracy promotion. The result: tragedy ― including 4,500-plus dead American soldiers, a few trillion dollars down the drain, more than 200,000 dead Iraqis, and millions more displaced in their own country or in flight as refugees.

In response, in Syria the U.S. tried only limited intervention. Result: tragedy ― upwards of 300,000 dead and close to seven million more turned into refugees.

So will tough talk and escalated military action finally work this time around as the Trump administration faces off against ISIS? Consider what happens even if the U.S achieves a significant rollback of ISIS. Even if, in conjunction with allied Kurdish or Syrian rebel forces, ISIS’s “capital,” Raqqa, is taken and the so-called caliphate destroyed, the ideology isn’t going away. Many of its fighters are likely to transition back to an insurgency and there will be no end to international terror in ISIS’s name. In the meantime, none of this will have solved the underlying problems of artificial states now at the edge of collapse or beyond, divided ethno-religious groups, and anti-Western nationalist and religious sentiments. All of it begs the question: What if Americans are incapable of helping (at least in a military sense)?

A real course correction is undoubtedly impossible without at least a willingness to reconsider and reframe our recent historical experiences. If the 2016 election is any indication, however, a Trump administration with the present line-up of national security chiefs (who fought in these very wars) won’t meaningfully alter either the outlook or the policies that led us to this moment. Candidate Trump offered a hollow promise ― to “Make America Great Again” ― conjuring up a mythical era that never was. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton offered only remarkably dated and stale rhetoric about America as the “indispensable nation.”

In the new Trump era, neither major party seems capable of escaping a shared commitment to the legends rather than the facts of America’s recent past in the Greater Middle East. Both sides remain eerily confident that the answers to contemporary foreign policy woes lie in a mythical version of that past, whether Trump’s imaginary 1950s paradise or Clinton’s fleeting mid-1990s “unipolar moment.”

Both ages are long gone, if they ever really existed at all. Needed is some fresh thinking about our militarized version of foreign policy and just maybe an urge, after all these years, to do so much less. Patriotic fables certainly feel good, but they achieve little. My advice: dare to be discomfited.

Major Danny Sjursen is a U.S. Army strategist and former history instructor at West Point. He served tours with reconnaissance units in Iraq and Afghanistan. He has written a memoir and critical analysis of the Iraq War, Ghostriders of Baghdad: Soldiers, Civilians, and the Myth of the Surge. He lives with his wife and four sons near Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.Jewish Community Centers were shaken by another wave of bomb threats, forcing evacuations in 10 states Monday.

Eleven Jewish Community Centers received threatening calls Monday, said Marla Cohen, communications manager for JCCA, the Jewish Community Center Association.

Law enforcement officials were investigating the threats and, as of late Monday, centers were being reopened after explosive devices were not found.

For some of these organizations, it was not the first threat made in recent weeks. There have now been at least 67 incidents at 56 Jewish Community Centers in 27 states and one Canadian province since the start of 2017, Cohen told The Huffington Post.

Monday’s incidents are part a sharp rise in threats made against JCCs since January as well as a rise in anti-Semitism around the nation since Donald Trump began his presidential campaign, which was frequently criticized for winking at white nationalists and not forcefully condemning hate speech and extremism. Though hard numbers on previous threats against JCCs weren’t immediately available, several community centers and advocacy organizations characterized this year’s string of incidents as unprecedented.

“It is an intense climate right now between the spike in hate incidents post-election and the series of bomb threats targeting the Jewish community over the past couple weeks,” Elise Jarvis, spokeswoman for the Anti-Defamation League, told HuffPost previously. “The frequency and scale of this is at a level right now that’s higher than we’ve seen in a long time.”

Paul Goldenberg, director of the Secure Community Network, said there is “no denying that there has been a remarkable uptick in anti-Semitic hate incidents in the last 60 days.” The Network, which advises Jewish groups on security matters, is an affiliate of the Jewish Federations of North America and the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.

The far-right has become emboldened under Trump, and while the number of Americans who directly support hardened hate groups remains far lower than in earlier decades, the number of hate groups in America is rising, according to a recent report from the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate and extremism around the nation.

Heidi Beirich, director of the Intelligence Project at SPLC, said that this series of bomb threats since the new year is “unprecedented.”

“I’ve been working at SPLC since 1999. I’ve never seen a string of attacks like this that are targeting the same kind of institution in the same kind of way. This is new,” Beirich said.

She added that it remains unclear who is making these threats, if it’s one person or more, but it has rattled communities around the U.S.

“This threatens an entire community. It’s very scary,” Beirich said. “You’re terrorizing whole families and children. There are usually day care centers that serve an entire population in the area. These threats can make it impossible for those communities to function normally.”

Anti-Semitic hate crimes comprise the largest portion of religiously motivated attacks in the United States. But Trump has yet to address the issue. In news conferences last week, the president had multiple opportunities to address concerns over rising anti-Semitism, but each time he either downplayed or denied the rise. When a Jewish reporter asked Trump explicitly about the recent spike in bomb threats against JCCs, Trump cut him off, told him to sit down and told the reporter his question wasn’t fair and claimed to be the “least anti-Semitic person that you’ve ever seen in your entire life.”

Deputy White House Press Secretary Lindsay Walters didn’t specifically address anti-Semitism, but did say in response to the latest bomb threats Monday, “Hatred and hate-motivated violence of any kind have no place in a country founded on the promise of individual freedom,” adding Trump has “made it abundantly clear that these actions are unacceptable.”

The Anti-Defamation League said it was “deeply disturbed” by the latest wave of bomb threats this week and issued bomb threat guidance for all Jewish institutions.

“We are confident that JCCs around the country are taking the necessary security protections, and that law enforcement officials are making their investigation of these threats a high priority,” said ADL Chief Executive Jonathan A. Greenblatt in a statement.

The FBI and Department of Justice have said they are “investigating possible civil rights violations in connection with the threats” to JCCs.1. Born from Something Awful

Around 2005 or so a strange link started showing up in my old webcomic’s referral logs. This new site I didn’t understand. It was a bulletin board, but its system of navigation was opaque. Counter intuitively, you had to hit “reply” to read a thread. Moreover, the content was bizarre nonsense.

The site, if you hadn’t guessed, was 4chan.org. It was an offshoot of a different message board which I also knew from my referral logs, “Something Awful,” at the time, an online community of a few hundred nerds who liked comics, video games, and well, nerds things. But unlike boards with similar content, Something Awful skewed toward dark jokes. I had an account at Something Awful, which I used sometimes to post in threads about my comic.

4chan had been created by a 15-year-old Something Awful user named Christopher Poole (whose 4chan mod name was “m00t”). Poole had adapted a type of Japanese bulletin board software which was difficult to understand at first, but once learned, was far more fun to post in than the traditional American format used by S.A., as a result the site became popular very quickly.

How did we get here? What is 4chan exactly? And how did a website about anime become the avant garde of the far right? Mixed up with fascist movements, international intrigue, and Trump iconography? How do we interpret it all?

At the very beginning, 4chan met once a year in only one place in the world: Baltimore, Maryland at the anime convention, Otakon. As a nerdy teen growing up in Baltimore in the 90s, I had wandered into Otakon much like I had later wandered into 4chan, just when it was starting. I also attended Otakon in the mid-aughts when 4chan met there, likewise to promote my webcomic.

As someone who has witnessed 4chan grow from a group of adolescent boys who could fit into a single room at my local anime convention to a worldwide coalition of right wing extremists (which is still somehow also a message board about anime), I feel I have some obligation to explain.

This essay is an attempt to untangle the threads of 4chan and the far right.

2. Anon Steps Out to Fight Lord Xenu

In the beginning I didn’t pay all that much attention 4chan. I knew they were a group of teen anime fans who met to party awkwardly like so many other teens at nerd-themed conventions. But around 2008 I realized I wanted to do a story on them. Their user base had grown exponentially and it was obvious they were about to explode into the mainstream. (Much to the dismay of its millions of users, who tried in vain desperation to keep it a secret.)

The key to 4chan’s popularity (and what distinguished it from its progenitor Something Awful) was the Japanese bulletin board Poole had adapted for English use. People had so much fun using it, threads became ephemeral, growing wildly within seconds, then disappearing minutes later, pushed out of the way and into oblivion by new threads and so forth ad infinitum 24/7. Perhaps the most appealing part for users was that you didn’t have to make an account. The software displayed a default name for posters who didn’t sign up— which was everyone. On all those millions upon millions of posts the author’s name was simply, “Anonymous.” Users began referring to each other by that name. “Hi Anon here,” posts would begin. And so Anonymous was born.

Now 4chan is often explained as being responsible for some early popular memes like “rickrolling.” But this is an understatement. 4chan invented the meme as we use it today. At the time, one of the few places you saw memes was there. The white Impact font with the black outlines, that was them (via S.A.). Terms like “win” and “epic” and “fail” were all created or popularized on 4chan, used there for years before they became a ubiquitous part of the culture. The very method of how gifs and images are interspersed with dialogue in Slack or now iMessage or wherever is deeply 4chanian. In other words, the site left a profound impression on how we as a culture behave and interact.

In 2008, I wrote the site’s teenage founder, Poole, whose contact was at the top of the site, asking for an interview. He never wrote back. Then I saw 4chan was meeting, not in Baltimore, but a few blocks from my apartment in New York, in fact, in many cities around the world. They had planned to protest the church of Scientology.

Why this group of nerdy boys had pivoted from meeting at my local anime convention and goofing off to protesting Scientology is an interesting question.

To answer it, we must look a little closer at 4chan’s system of values. To those with a passing knowledge of 4chan it’s strange to think of it having a value system. And indeed it did try its mightiest to be nihilistic, to hate, to deny, to shrug, to laugh off everything as a joke like all teenage boys do (the board was mostly young men). This effort was of course impossible. The attempts to be “random,” like a Rorschach test, painted a portrait of exactly who they were, the voids filled in with their identity, their interests, their tastes. The result was that 4chan had a culture as complex as any other society of millions of people, anonymous or no. There were things it loved, things it hated, ways of being and acting that met with approval and disapproval in the group.

In fact, it codified its value system in a series of “rules.” Like everything it did, these were constructed piecemeal from pop culture. Rule #1 was taken from Fight Club’s Rule # 1, “Don’t talk about 4chan.” All the rules had a Lord of the Flies vibe to them, that is to say, they were very obviously created by a bullying and anarchic society of adolescent boys — or at least, men with the mindset of boys — particularly lonely, sex starved man-boys, who according to their own frequent jokes about the subject, lived in their parents’ basement. (Poole himself lived in his parents’ basement well after the initial success of the the site.) They were obsessed with Japanese culture and, naturally enough, there was already a term for people like them in Japan, hikikomori — meaning “pulling inward, or being confined” — teens and adults who withdrew from society into fantasy worlds constructed by anime, video games, and now the internet. And of course, it’s relevant to note here the themes of Fight Club itself, a film about a male collective who regains their masculinity through extreme acts after it has been debased by modern corporate culture.

Also like adolescent boys, 4chan users were deeply sensitive and guarded. They disguised their own sensitivity (namely, their fear that they would be, “forever alone”) by extreme insensitivity. The rules, like everything else, were always half in jest. Everything had to be a done with at least a twinkle of winking irony. This was an escape route, a way of never having to admit to your peers that you were in fact expressing something from your heart, in other words — that you were indeed vulnerable. No matter what a user did or said, he could always say it was “for the lulz” (lols). Like (by comparison the tame and sophisticated precursor) “Something Awful” board that spawned it, 4chan defined itself by being insensitive to suffering in that way only people who have never really suffered can — that is to say, young people, mostly young men, protected by a cloak of anonymity. The accepted standard was a sort of libertarian “free speech” banner, in which isolated man-boys asserted their right to do or say anything no matter someone else’s feelings. This meant generally posting pornography, swastikas, racial slurs, and content that reveled in harm to other people.

Before 4chan’s dispute with Scientology it had banded together for practical jokes they had called “raids.” The board would flood particular chat rooms or online networks. Thousands of 4chan users would appear in the virtual child’s world Habbo Hotel to cause chaos, for no other reason than that it was an amusing way to pass their near limitless idle time (or as they would phrase it, “for the lulz”).

Durings the raids, they would enforce “Rule 1,” and conceal the very fact of 4chan. An ongoing joke was to claim they were from a rival site, newgrounds.com. The Scientology “protest” was also in large part a “raid.” Videos were made directed at Scientology pretending “Anonymous” was a shadowy and powerful cabal, something akin to Hydra from Marvel comic books. Since no one knew who Anonymous was at the time, they could pretend they were anything. This meant that there was another more serious component in the protest. The part that wasn’t a joke was an experiment in political power. What could they do with their numbers? Could they actually destroy Scientology? If not, how far could they get? There wasn’t a consensus of course. Many on 4chan expressed indignation and rage at the protests. They were afraid that “Rule #1” would be broken; 4chan would be outed — and as a consequence — the only community in which they had found acceptance would disappear.

The morning of the protest was a brutally cold Saturday. My roommate and I, bleary-eyed, boarded the subway and took it two stops to Times Square. We had a vague feeling we were being trolled.

“No way these nerds are leaving their parents’ basements…” my roommate grumbled as we ascended up the NQR steps. Times Square was abandoned. Not even the tourists were out. All you could see was the trash billowing about on the streets. Then we turned the corner on to 46th street and to our astonishment several hundred people were screaming and shouting, cordoned off in front of the Scientology building. Anonymous. Every one. They all wore masks, mostly Guy Fawkes masks, inspired by the Wachowski sisters’ adaptation of a comic book. This was, in comic book parlance, the mask’s “first appearance” (IRL). I interviewed the perplexed Scientologist standing between the columns of his temple. He was wearing a gleaming silver suit, the threads iridescent. He looked horrified and perplexed.

“These are terrorists,” he insisted, of course having no idea who they were, which was message board users. “This is a terrorist organization. And we are religion protected by the First Amendment.” Then he handed me a packet, surprisingly thick, full of glossy pamphlets about Scientology, like something you might get from a college admissions office.

I interviewed a pimply faced boy, his Guy Fawkes mask pulled up over long, curly, orange locks.

“How was this protest organized?” I asked.

“It was organized on a site called newgrounds.com” he answered.

“Is the protest a joke or serious?”

“It’s serious business.” he replied. Serious business was a meme, a joke on 4chan. And so it went down the line, “anonymous” protestors, all 4chan users, following Rule #1, trying to conceal 4chan from me, and obscure the source of the joke, just like a real life “raid” into a chatroom, hiding their motivations behind a mirrored chamber of repeated memes. Habbo Hotel by way of Lord Xenu. Xenu was Scientology’s ultimate revelatory secret, the intergalactic space ruler who seeded earth in the primeval past. So Anon chanted his name as a meme. It was their only real political statement: all information was free now that we had the internet. Scientology acolytes the same age, handing out copies of Dianetics, stopped up their ears.

When the protest broke up (it was scheduled to end at noon), a nerd dressed like Neo from The Matrix in a long black duster shouted, “Now back to our parents’ basements!” and the whole crowd laughed.

Dale Beran 4chans first day out The Scientology protests of 2008 off Broadway

3. New Horizons

The peculiar thing about the Scientology protest was how little 4chan cared about Scientology. The original cause of the dispute had to do with 4chan’s access to “lulz” on the internet. Scientology had removed a funny video featuring Tom Cruise rambling incoherently about Scientology. 4chan believed this had interfered with their unlimited right to post anything (and keep it) on the internet. There was a moral component to their protest, but it was tangential at best.

When, several years later, Occupy Wall Street came to Zuccotti Park, it too only tangentially touched upon 4chan’s political interests and complaints. 4chan was libertarian. During the 2008 presidential election, it supported Ron Paul (replacing its traditional greeting “sup /b/” with “ron paul /b/”). 4chan wanted the right to do as it pleased and not much else. Where large organized systems like corporations, the government, or Scientology, interfered with that “right,” they opposed them. Anonymous attacked corporations like Paypal and American Express, not because of their corporateness, but because they had frozen the assets of Julian Assange who had similar beliefs about the freedom to distribute information on the internet.

At Occupy Wall Street, 4channers were a distinct minority. Now and again someone in a Guy Fawkes mask would voice libertarian ideas among a group of radical leftists discussing socialism.

However, despite not being on the left, Anonymous is often conflated or confused with the leftist Occupy movement. For example, in the T.V. series Mr. Robot, a group of clandestine anonymous hackers (“F Society”) releases a video that is clearly derived from 4chan’s/Anonymous’ video for the Scientology protests. The hackers in Mr. Robot, who wear masks similar to those of 4chan’s Guy Fawkes mask, want to destroy the corporate hegemony and free everyone from their debt, student or otherwise. That is to say, they have the agenda of Occupy Wall Street.

The absurdity here shouldn’t go without note. Emulating fiction from T.V. and comic books, 4chan forum go-ers pretended to be an international cabal of powerful hackers. Then almost a decade later, a T.V. show about a fictional cabal of powerful hackers copies their video, closing the loop.

An image saved off 4chan in February of 2011 by me the lurking author

By the end of 2011, 4chan had finally been outed. Subsequently, the group splintered in a sense; anyone could and did pick up the banner of Anonymous. Hackers labeling themselves as such pursued different agendas, some anti-corporate, some truly noble — like helping convict the Steubenville rapists. But philanthropic and anti-corporate hacking was not at the heart of what 4chan was about. It had started and always was in some way about the “lulz,” using the computer for entertainment, for passing the time. Perhaps there was a moment when it could have been something else, a shining possibility that emerged on the horizon in one of those magical revolutionary moments in which all things are possible, like Occupy Wall Street itself. But, it was not to be. At least, not yet.

4chan was now spread along a network of websites and IRC channels of which 4chan.org was one. The press often lamented how, like Occupy Wall Street, they could not define Anonymous. No one person represented it. But this same reasoning could also be used to make the opposite point. If no definition existed for Anonymous, why were millions of people identifying as one of the group? Just because the borders were as amorphous as a cloud, didn’t mean it wasn’t as large or real as one. It was still united by a common culture and set of values, fuzzy around the edges, but solid at the core. And what was this solid core that defined it? The same thing it had always been.

It was still a group of hikikomori — a group of primarily young males who spent a lot of the time at the computer, so much so they had retreated into virtual worlds of games, T.V., and now the networks of the internet. This was where most or all of their interaction, social or otherwise took place. The real world, by contrast, above their mothers’ basements, was a place they did not succeed, perhaps a place they did not fundamentally understand.

An early 4chan meme made from a screenshot of 4chan

This, of course, did not describe everyone, but it was the bulk of the bell curve. Sometimes, while meeting virtually to commiserate about the problem, 4chan sought to fix it. For example, 4chan created a /fit/ board, teaching “Anons” how to exercise and groom themselves. The advice was so basic, it was endearing. (“You have to shower once a day” etc.) There were professionals and successful people on the board who used it only for amusement. And there were hackers who did indeed use their knowledge of virtual worlds to effect substantive change in the real one. But the core of the culture remained more or less unchanged. It was a culture that celebrated failure — that from the very beginning encouraged anyone who posted to “become an hero” (their term for killing themselves, and sometimes others in the bargain). And 4chan’s next big effort reflected that. In fact, it was such a big deal for them because, after all their groping for a prank that might become a cause 4chan cared about, they finally hit on one that expressed their strange, unique complaints.

4. Gamergate: Anon Defends his Safe Spaces

It’s difficult to recall what started Gamergate because, like much of 4chan-style content, it never made sense on the surface. The mind tends to discard such things as nonsense. Nonetheless, there was a beginning. In 2014, a jilted lover claimed his ex-girlfriend had been unfaithful to him. He tried to prove to the internet that he was wronged in an embarrassing and incoherent blog post. The target of his post, his ex, happened to be a female game developer.

Soon 4chan and other like minded men who felt wronged by women, took up the rallying cry. The effort somehow moved from lurid interest in a particular woman’s sex life to a critique of video games. Gamergaters believed that “SJWs” (Social Justice Warriors) were adding unwanted elements into their video games, namely things which promoted gender equality.

Strangely enough, they believed this was happening not because video game creators and the video game press were interested in making and reviewing games that dealt with these issues, but because there was a grand conspiracy perpetrated by a few activists to change video games.

While this whirling connective tissue of nonsense doesn’t seem to make much sense at first glance (and indeed, much of the game-making community and the press in general struggled to understand it). It makes perfect sense if we look at this New York Times story about how more than 16 percent of men in the nation are unemployed.

Again, here we can understand this group as people who have failed at the real world and have checked out of it and into the fantasy worlds of internet forums and videos games. These are men without jobs, without prospects, and by extension (so they declaimed) without girlfriends. Their only recourse, the only place they feel effective, is the safe, perfectly cultivated worlds of the games they enter. By consequence of their defeat, the distant, abstract concept of women in the flesh makes them feel humiliated and rejected. Yet, in the one space they feel they can escape the realities of this, the world of the video game, here (to them, it seems) women want to assert their presence and power.

If this sounds hard to believe, take for example Milo Yiannopoulos, the “Technology Editor” at Breitbart News, whose scheduled lecture this month at Berkeley spawned massive riots and protests. Yiannopoulos rose to prominence via Gamergate. He is not a “technology” editor because he compares the chip architectures of competing graphics cards. Rather the “tech” here is code for the fact that his audience is the vast population of sad young men who have retreated to internet communities. Likewise the mainstream press sometimes describes him as troll as a way of capturing his vague association with 4chan. This term, too, is inaccurate. He is 4chan at its most earnest, after all these men have finally discovered their issue — the thing that unites them — their failure and powerlessness literally embodied (to them) by women.

Yiannopoulos’ rambling “arguments” against feminism, are not arguments at all, as much as pep talks, ways of making these dis-empowered men feel empowered by discarding the symbol of their failure — women. As an openly gay man, he argues that men no longer need be interested in women, that they can and should walk away from the female sex en masse. For example in a long incoherent set of bullet points on feminism he states:

The rise of feminism has fatally coincided with the rise of video games, internet porn, and, sometime in the near future, sex robots. With all these options available, and the growing perils of real-world relationships, men are simply walking away.

Here Yiannopoulos has inverted what has actually happened to make his audience feel good. Men who have retreated to video games and internet porn can now characterize their helpless flight as an empowered conscious choice to reject women for something else. In other words, it justifies a lifestyle which in their hearts they previously regarded helplessly as a mark of shame.

Gamergate at last (unlike Habbo Hotel, Scientology, Paypal, or Occupy Wall Street) was a “raid” that mattered, that wasn’t just a fun lark to pass the time or a winking joke. Here was another issue (besides “let me do what I want on the internet all the time”) that spoke to the bulk of 4chan users.

Anon was going to get “SJW”s (ie. empowered women) out of their safe spaces — video games — the place from which they retreated from women by indulging in fantasies in which they were in control (that is to say, ones which demeaned women).

However, their efforts failed, not so much for lack of trying (though there’s that, too) but because the campaign itself was a fantasy. Gamergate was, quite poetically, defined by the campaigners poor-reality testing. The people carrying it out did not interact with real life all that much, only the virtual escapist worlds of video games, message boards, and anime.

And thus the campaign proceeded like the video game it wasn’t. Menus of “target lists” were drawn up, their enemies (mostly women they wanted to harrass) labelled “warriors.” 4chan users pretended a furious amount of mouse clicking and virtual action would somehow translate into a concrete reward appearing in their computer screens, like it does, say, in World of Warcraft.

Namely, gamergaters believed that online sleuthing would uncover a tangible conspiracy about how game creators colluded to further a “Social Justice Warrior” agenda. Among many others, they hacked the Skype account of the indie game developer I was working for at the time, presumably reading our conversations about the game we were making looking for the moment when we uttered “now to further the secret SJW agenda.” What they found instead was my boss patiently explaining to me the best ways to make a video game. One of the cardinal rules was that every action the user takes must have a carefully calibrated system of escalating rewards. Complete a level, get a cut scene. Video games in this sense, are meticulously constructed to make sure the user is entertained at every moment through a challenge-reward system.

All that work cracking Skype accounts with wordlists did not yield the tangible reward of evidence of a cabal. The real world behaves differently than a video game. There were shades of grey. It disappointed. What you did and what you got for your efforts were muddled. It was more challenging than the safe spaces of a video game, carefully crafted to accommodate gamers and make them feel — well, the exact opposite of how they felt interacting in the real world — effective. In the fantasy world of the game, actions achieved ends.

It was almost as if all these disaffected young men were waiting for a figure to come along who, having achieved nothing in his life, pretended as though he had achieved everything, who by using the tools of fantasy, could transmute their loserdom (in 4chan parlance, their “fail”), into “win.”

5. Trump: the Loser who Won

Another vintage 4chan meme from the authors personal collection

In Bukowski’s novel Factotum, the main character, Hank Chinaski, drifts through various demeaning blue-collar jobs until he ends up working the stockroom of an autoparts store. The job is no better than any of the others, except for one important difference: It ends early enough for Chinaski and another worker, Manny, to race to the track for the last bet of the day. Soon the other workers in the warehouse hear of the scheme and ask Hank to put down their bets, too.

At first Hank objects. He doesn’t have time to make their petty bets before the track closes. But Manny has a different idea.

“We don’t bet their money, we keep their money.” he tells Hank.

“Suppose they win?” Hank asks.

“They won’t win. They always pick the wrong horse. They have a way of always picking the wrong horse.”

“Suppose they bet our horse?”

“Then we know we’ve got the wrong horse.”

Soon Chinaski and Manny are flush with money, not from working for the $1.25 an hour at the warehouse or even making smart bets themselves, but from taking the money of the other workers and not betting it. That is after all, why those same men handing over their bets work in the factory; they are defined by their bad decisions, by the capacity for always getting a bad deal. Their wages and their bets are both examples of the same thing.

Trump, of course, has made his fortune in a similar manner, with casinos, correspondence courses, and pageants, swindling money out of aspiring-millionaire blue collar workers, selling them not a bill of goods, but the hope of a bill of goods, the glitz and glamour of success, to people who don’t win, or in Trump’s parlance, “don’t win anymore.” As if once, in the mythic past he invented, they did once and soon will again, since at the heart of what he promised was, “you’ll win so much you’ll get sick of winning.” In other words, if we are to understand Trump supporters, we can view them at the core as losers — people who never ever bet on the right horse — Trump, of course, being the signal example, the man obsessed with “losers” who, seemingly was going to be remembered as one of the biggest losers in history — until he won.

The older generation of Trump supporters the press often focuses on, the so called “forgotten white working class,” are in this sense easier to explain since they fit into the schema of a 1950s-style electorate. Like the factory workers in Factotum, the baby boomers were promised pensions and prosperity, but received instead simply the promises. Here the narrative is simple. The workers were promised something and someone (the politicians? the economy? the system itself?) never delivered. Their horse never came in.

This telling of the story ignores the fact that, as Trump often points out, “it was a bad deal.” The real story is not that the promise was never fulfilled. Manny and Hank’s deal with the workers was the same as the factory’s deal with them: the empty promise was the bargain. The real story is not that the horse didn’t come in, it’s that the bet was never placed.

In the third presidential debate, Hillary evoked her conservative father as a way of appealing to the electorate, “My father was a small-businessman.” she said. “He worked really hard… And so what I believe is the more we can do the middle class, the more we can invest in you…”

No one noted how wildly outdated Clinton’s picture of the average voter was (her father, a suburban business man in the 50s) because we are used to every politician holding up the same faded 65 year old snapshot anytime he or she regards the American electorate. Just like how images of Christmas on Coke bottles and catalogs are forever stuck in the 30s and 40s, so we expect politics to be eternally frozen in the 1950s. That is to say, as a nation still (somehow!) defined by its baby boomers, we understand this era as the baseline for understanding ourselves, considering it, “where we are from.”

But what does the American electorate look like if we put down the snapshot? Peel away how we perceive ourselves from what we actually are? How has that image of a 1950s business man who owns his own home in the suburbs changed after decades of declines in wages, middle classdom, and home ownership?

To younger generations who never had such jobs, who had only the mythology of such jobs (rather a whimsical snapshot of the 1950s frozen in time by America’s ideology) this part of the narrative is clear. America, and perhaps existence itself is a cascade of empty promises and advertisements — that is to say, fantasy worlds, expectations that will never be realized “IRL,” but perhaps consumed briefly in small snatches of commodified pleasure.

Thus these Trump supporters hold a different sort of ideology, not one of “when will my horse come in,” but a trolling self-effacing, “I know my horse will never come in.” That is to say, younger Trump supporters know they are handing their money to someone who will never place their bets — only his own — because, after all, it’s plain as day there was never any other option.

In this sense, Trump’s incompetent, variable, and ridiculous behavior is the central pillar upon which his younger support rests.

Such an idea — one of utter contemptuous despair — is embodied in one image more than any other, one storied personage who has become a(n) hero to millions, the voice of a generation.

I am speaking, of course, of Pepe the Frog.

6. Trump the Frog

But there was little talk of why Pepe of all things? Was Pepe indeed meaningless? Another flotsam of senseless meme nonsense flung out of the “dumpster fire” of team Trump?

Pepe, like so many memes, was born on the “random” boards of 4chan’s /b/ (“b” for random) circa 2007, picked out of a webcomic by Matt Furie to become a macro. But why was he picked? We know now that 4chan’s actions are neither meaningless, “random,” or empty because they are labelled a “prank.”

Viewed through the lens of the people first posting him, Pepe makes nothing but sense. The original comic panels from which Pepe is excerpted feature him getting caught peeing with his pants pulled all the way down, his ass hanging out. Surprisingly, he is unashamed of this, “feels good man” he tells his roommate.

The grotesque, frowning, sleepy eyed, out of shape, swamp dweller, peeing with his pants pulled down because-it-feels-good-man frog is an ideology, one which steers into the skid of its own patheticness. Pepe symbolizes embracing your loserdom, owning it. That is to say, it is what all the millions of forum-goers of 4chan met to commune about. It is, in other words, a value system, one reveling in deplorableness and being pridefully dispossessed. It is a culture of hopelessness, of knowing “the system is rigged.” But instead of fight the response is flight, knowing you’re trapped in your circumstances is cause to celebrate. For these young men, voting Trump is not a solution, but a new spiteful prank.

We know, by this point, that Trump is funny. Even to us leftists, horrified by his every move, he is hilarious. Someone who is all brash confidence and then outrageously incompetent at everything he does is — from an objective standpoint — comedy gold. Someone who accuses his enemies of the faults he at that very moment is portraying is comedy gold. But, strangely, as the left realized after the election, pointing out Trump was a joke was not helpful. In fact, Trump’s farcical nature didn’t seem to be a liability, rather, to his supporters, it was an asset.

All the left’s mockery of Trump served to reinforce his message as not only an outsider, but as an expression of rage, despair, and ultimate pathetic Pepe-style hopelessness.

4chan value system, like Trump’s ideology, is obsessed with masculine competition (and the subsequent humiliation when the competition is lost). Note the terms 4chan invented, now so popular among grade schoolers everywhere: “fail” and “win,” “alpha” males and “beta cucks.” This system is defined by its childlike innocence, that is to say, the inventor’s inexperience with any sort of “IRL” romantic interaction. And like Trump, since these men wear their insecurities on their sleeve, they fling these insults in wild rabid bursts at everyone else.

Trump the loser, the outsider, the hot mess, the pathetic joke, embodies this duality. Trump represents both the alpha and the beta. He is a successful person who, as the left often notes, is also the exact opposite — a grotesque loser, sensitive and prideful about his outsider status, ready at the drop of a hat to go on the attack, self-obsessed, selfish, abrogating, unquestioning of his own mansplaining and spreading, so insecure he must assault women. In other words, to paraphrase Truman Capote, he is someone with his nose pressed so hard up against the glass he looks ridiculous. And for this reason, (because he knows he is substanceless) he must constantly re-affirm his own ego. Or as Errol Morris put it, quoting Borges, he is a “labyrinth with no center.”

But, what the left doesn’t realize is, this is not a problem for Trump’s supporters, rather, the reason why they support him.

Trump supporters voted for the con-man, the labyrinth with no center, because the labyrinth with no center is how they feel, how they feel the world works around them. A labyrinth with no center is a perfect description of their mother’s basement with a terminal to an endless array of escapist fantasy worlds.

Trump’s bizarre, inconstant, incompetent, embarrassing, ridiculous behavior — what the left (naturally) perceives as his weaknesses — are to his supporters his strengths.

In other words, Trump is 4chan.

Trump is steering into the skid embodied.

Trump is Pepe.

Trump is loserdom embraced.

Trump is the loser who has won, the pathetic little frog on the big strong body.

Trump’s ventures of course, represent this fantasy: this hope that the working man, against the odds dictated by his knowledge, experience, or hard work will one day strike it rich — Trump University, late night real estate schemes, the casinos. Trump himself, who inherited his wealth, represents the classic lucky sap.

But Trump also equally represents the knowledge that all of that is a lie, a scam that’s much older than you are, a fantasy that we can dwell in though it will never become true, like a video game.

Trump, in other words, is a way of owning and celebrating being taken advantage of.

Trump embodies buying the losing bet that will never be placed.

He is both despair and cruel arrogant dismissal, the fantasy of winning and the pain of losing mingled into one potion.

For this reason, the left should stop expecting Trump’s supporters to be upset when he doesn’t fulfill his promises.

Support for Trump is an acknowledgement that the promise is empty.

He is both the “promise” (the labyrinth,” the “alpha”) and the empty center (“the promise betrayed,” the “beta”), in a sublime, hilarious, combination that perfectly reflects the worldview of his supporters.

In other words, we can append a third category to the two classically understood division of Trump supporters:

1) Generally older people who naively believe Trump will “make America great again,” that is to say, return it to its 1950s ideal evoked by both Trump and Clinton.

2) The 1 percent, who know this promise is empty, but also know it will be beneficial to short term business interests.

3) Younger members of the 99 percent, like Anon, who also know this promise is empty, but who support Trump as a defiant expression of despair.

7. The Un-rarest Pepes of Them All

As I said when I began this essay, because I work in comics, video games, and animation, I’ve watched 4chan grow from a group of people who could fit inside a single room to a worldwide collective.

But I should also note there’s another reason I was there from the beginning. It’s because, like so many young writers, journalists, and artists that are now despised by 4chan, I’m an inch away from their demographic.

When my father died after I left college in 2004, the last of my family’s wealth evaporated. And ever since then, I have lived well below the poverty line. (Even now, though I work as a Professor, this is true). But I had the benefit of an education.

It was not too difficult for me to imagine an alternate version of myself that didn’t happen to have that. Like the men in those studies, I drifted unemployed and unemployable for many years in my 20s. Often when I did have a job, I quit, realizing that, in fact, laboring behind the counter in the service economy for minimum wage paid less than sitting at home idle in front of my PC, waiting for a gig in the gig economy, posting and selling comics, or trading virtual items in online games.

And I knew, I was on balance, luckier than most. My private school and private college education was the deviation from the norm. My chances were better than the majority of people my age. Yet here I was stone broke. All I owned (and still own) is my college debt. So it wasn’t a surprise there were a teeming mass of people out there who knew with fatalistic certainty that there was no way out. Why not then retreat into your parents’ basements? And instead of despairing over trying and failing, celebrate not-trying? Celebrate retreating into the fantasy worlds of the computer. Steer into the skid — Pepe style. Own it. And why wouldn’t they retreat to a place like 4chan? To let their resentment and failures curdle into something solid?

8. 4chan vs. Gender

In a previous essay about contemporary counter-culture, I mentioned Barbara Ehrenreich’s The Hearts of Men, a feminist critique that discusses how gender roles bind and control men. Ehrenreich writes about how, in post-war hyper-capitalist 1950s America (the baseline America to which both Trump and Hillary harken back) a new role was invented for men. A man’s wage and his Playboy “bachelor pad” linked his earning potential to his role as a ladies man. This replaced a previous, more conservative ideology in which your earning potential meant you were able to support a wife and children. These two schemes, Ehrenreich maintained, are still the dominant ideas that control men’s behavior in the U.S.

As she pointed out, only “hipsters” managed to break and destroy this schema — the first and most famous ones being the wife-leaving beats, whose sexual adventures both gay and straight were totally disconnected from their earning potential and all societal expectations. They were dead broke (“Dharma”) bums, who much to the frustration of the pro-capitalist Hefner-style playboys, got laid all the time despite being stone broke and sometimes gay to boot. In other words, their enjoyment of life and sex was decoupled from the ideological demands of capitalism.

Recall the central themes of Gamergate: women represent Anon’s “beta” failure in capitalism. Anons have achieved neither of these ideological ideals; they are not playboys with bachelor pads or wage earners with families. If the U.S. were in fact what it pretended to be, that is to say, the best way to become either the playboy or the family man, Anon would not exist. But it is this gap between ideological expectation and cruel reality which created him. Instead, Anon resides in the very opposite of bachelor pads: his mother’s basement. We learned from the New Yorker profile of the alt-right leader Mike Cernovich, that he broadcasts from his girlfriend’s parent’s house, letting his male viewers believe the pool in the background of his webcasts is his, not theirs.

Video games were Anons’ way to retreat from this painful reminder of his failure, a failure which was literally embodied by women — whose physical attainment is the end goal of both ideologies. Gamergate was a pained cry, that here too, even unto their escapist fantasies, empowered women, like the mythological furies, were hounding them.

We can see now why several weeks ago 4chan went to “war” with artists and their “safe spaces,” trying to shut down music and arts venues across the country. What’s striking is how close the populations of 4chan and those who wanted to shut down the “safe spaces” are. The artists themselves are young people on the fringes of the economy who are also immersed in romantic fantasy. The main difference is that the artists have learned different ways to cope with the same problem. Instead of residing in their mother’s basements, they created ways to live together cheaply in warehouse spaces.

By contrasting 4chan with their self-proclaimed enemy, their counter-culture counterparts, we can see that, though demographically they are so similar, the real difference is introduced here — at the thorny of issue of the girlfriend. 4chan’s self-described “beta” males are trapped in this ideology, hating their counterparts whose key difference is a willingness, like the beatniks of old, to slough off the “gender binary” and live how they please.

But rather than take this as reason to be ever more contemptuous of Anons and their misogyny, the left should regard Anon/the deplorables as a failure on its part, a terrific mangling of the left’s own arguments that has resulted in alienating the very group of people who could be the most helped by their ideas, if not the most convinced.

To the deplorables, whose central complaint is one of masculine frailty, pride, and failure — to deny their identities as men is to deny their complaint. They are a group who define themselves by their powerlessness, by being trapped into defeat. But if they are to accept the left’s viewpoint, they must accept that the problem at core of their being is all in their heads. That is to say, the left’s viewpoint of sexual-difference-as-illusion is exactly what they don’t want to hear — that they have cornered themselves into their mother’s basements.

The left does more than simply declare their opposing viewpoint wrong, the radical idea of sex/gender-as-illusion denies their viewpoint an existence. To the left, a complaint stemming from being a man is null space, lying outside the realm of what it will acknowledge as true.

The irony here, of course, is the radical idea of sexual-difference-as-illusion is meant to solve the deplorables’ problem. It was created to liberate those who are oppressed by the concept of sexual difference by dispelling it as a cloud of pure ideas. But to these powerless men, it’s as if the left were addressing their issue by saying in an Orwellian manner, “There’s no such thing as your problem! Problem solved!”

Here the notion of sexual-difference-as-illusion is not performing the work it was built to do, rather the opposite. Ironically, it works to convince alienated men that sex/gender has marked them as unique sort of outsider/failures, who cannot be accepted even into the multicultural coalitions that define themselves by their capacity for acceptance. In this way, 4chan’s virulent hatred of gender-bending “safe spaces,” though not justified, makes at least a perverse sort of sense, one tangled in wounded masculine pride.

9. Can Pepe be un Nazi-fied?

In Hannah Arendt’s The Origins of Totalitarianism, she notes that the inevitable result of a society built around the endless accumulation of middle class wealth is a man “degraded into a cog in the power-accumulating machine, free to console himself with sublime thoughts about the ultimate destiny of the machine, which itself is constructed in such a way that it can devour the globe simply by following its own inherent law.”

Such a picture of man, as a helpless cog in the vast juggernaut of society that grinds on to mangle everyone in its path, is not particularly new to us. In fact, it exists as a sort of folkloric way of understanding our modern condition, popping up again and again in our myths about escaping such a fate. Hollywood’s new hero is often one who must dramatically capitulate with an evil, hegemonic regime to stand against it. In the latest re-telling of the anti-fascist fable Star Wars, a hero must invent and build the fascist Death Star in order to destroy it. In the children’s story, The Hunger Games, the would be revolutionary Katniss must do everything the regime tells her so that she may ultimately effect its annihilation. And indeed, in the previously mentioned Anonymous-inspired T.V series Mr. Robot, the main character, a revolutionary hacker, works in a cubicle job in service of the an evil corporation (so tired is this cliche it must be playfully named “Evil Corp”) that dominates almost all aspects of life.

As both Sanders and the philosopher Slavoj Zizek noted after Sanders lost the primaries, left and right are in some sense outdated ideas. The new division in politics is those who favor the current global hegemony and those who are against it. Like the Hollywood heroes, right and left have been competing to become this new radical anti-status quo party. And so far, in both Europe and America, the right has won, implying that, as Arendt predicted, the powerlessness created by bourgeoisie systems of capitalist exploitation might once again implode into far right totalitarianism.

However, as we have seen, the right’s anti-feminist message is one that only provides a momentary sense of relief (“you are acting powerful by retreating into video games and the internet!”) but like scratching a mosquito bite, it ultimately causes more dissatisfaction. That is to say, the only solution they can offer is, “keep retreating!” Likewise, Trump and the mocking cruel anguish he represents is not a genuine solution to the electorate’s powerlessness, but rather, simply the one closest at hand.The first month of Donald Trump’s presidency has effectively functioned as an infomercial for why he is an unmitigated disaster for the United States. Trying to figure out one strand of this administration’s insanity to examine is kind of like trying to isolate the carrot pieces in a bowl of vegetable soup. Everything else keeps flooding into your hands.

Nevertheless, I’m going to give it a try. As a journalism professor, I have been especially terrified by Trump’s all-out attack on the press.

To be clear, this is not based on some kind of survival instinct. I’m not sticking up for my “team,” which I know is the lens through which many Trump supporters see politics.

No, the reason I’m terrified by Trump’s sustained attack on journalism is because it as an integral part of Trump’s plan to move toward an authoritarian government that grabs power from the other branches of government. As John McCain said over the weekend, attacking the press is “how dictators get started.”

As John McCain said over the weekend, attacking the press is 'how dictators get started.'

As such, Trump is undermining a central tenet of American democracy, which is based on a system of checks and balances that ensures that no one person or body can amass too much power and pose a threat to the freedom of Americans. The president has to sign Congress’s bills, Congress checks the president’s executive power, and the federal courts can overturn legislation and executive actions that violate the Constitution. We all learned this in middle school, although I’m not sure Trump was paying attention. American government is defined by its system of checks and balances.

The press, going back to the time of the formation of the United States, has been viewed as playing an essential role in this balance of power as the “fourth estate,” reporting on the actions of government so that citizens have the knowledge to govern themselves, and exposing wrongdoing when members of the government overstep their power. As Thomas Jefferson famously said:

Were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter.

So how does journalism’s fourth estate function operate in the Trump universe? Trump is trying to grab power the same way he was elected, via a campaign of fear. Trump has constructed a fake version of the United States, one that resembles a post-apocalyptic wasteland found in a science fiction movie. In the face of these threats ― of murderous Islamists and Mexican rapists flooding into the country, of voter fraud, of skyrocketing murder rates in cities, of nonexistent terrorist attacks ― Trump can claim, as he has, that he has virtually unfettered power to protect the country.

In this sense, Trump is actually correct when he calls the press the enemy, as journalists, playing their role as the fourth estate, can report on the facts that conflict with the lies Trump has concocted to create the threats that underlie his claims to exercise unchallenged power. If the American people believe the press, they will push back against Trump’s authoritarian moves.

Make no mistake, Trump is attempting to delegitimize every aspect of American democracy outside of the White House. So, rather than say he disagrees with a judge’s ruling on his executive order on immigration, he challenged the legitimacy of the federal court, decrying a “so-called judge.” When a Republican U.S. senator disagreed with the president’s assessment of a problematic raid in Yemen that killed multiple civilians, including children, the president attacked him. Trump has repeatedly made baseless claims of massive voter fraud, calling into question the voting system by which we elect our leaders, which is the basic foundation on which the power to govern rests in a democracy.

And he is doing the same thing with the press, who are the last barrier between freedom and authoritarianism (as this cartoon depicts) and the ones that can debunk his invented threats from which he is seeking to consolidate nondemocratic power. (It is shocking to consider that Politifact has found 69 percent of Trump’s examined statements to be “mostly false,” “false” or “pants on fire,” while only 16 percent of the statements qualified as “true “ or “mostly true.” The remaining 15 percent were judged “half true.”)

In this way, Trump’s attacks on journalistic outlets like CNN and the New York Times are nothing like his disputes with businesses like Nordstrom. Nordstrom might have taken some dollars out of his family’s pockets, but CNN and the New York Times can publicize the facts that conflict with Trump’s constructed alternative facts reality.

The important thing to remember is, this is not politics as usual. This is something new, at least in recent history. During times of intense partisanship, George W. Bush and Barack Obama took actions that angered political opponents. But when these presidents lost in court, they didn’t attack the legitimacy of the court. They expressed disappointment and vowed to fight on through democratic practices.

What Trump is doing marks a major change in the basic approach to governing. Trump isn’t engaged in partisan fighting. This is not a dirty, all-out political battle between Democrats and Republicans, like we’ve seen for, at the very least, the last 20 years.

No, this president is taking the same steps authoritarian regimes around the world have engaged in to consolidate power.

Which brings us right back to journalism. After all, if Trump lies, the press can easily report on the lies, relaying what was said and how the statements depart from established fact. The press can play its role as the fourth estate.

However, if Trump delegitimizes the news media, if he calls factual journalism he disagrees with “fake news,” if he and his administration claim journalists are the “opposition party,” if he convinces his supporters that nothing the news media says about him is true, he can nullify the press’s role in American democracy. He can shape his own reality, in which he can do no wrong, and in which he is protecting American from the threats they should fear.

The Republicans were playing a dangerous political game, but it was mostly a game. Trump has now taken the game and turned it into an actual governing philosophy. And his supporters, who didn’t know the Republicans were playing a game, are now primed and ready to believe that America is a failing wasteland under attack from outsiders, and Trump is the only one who can save us by being a “strong” ― code word for nondemocratic authoritarian ― leader.

Trump wants you to be afraid. And he’s right, but what you should be afraid of is him.

History tells us we have to fight back against authoritarian impulses. After the U.S. entered World War I, Woodrow Wilson and Congress used the conflict to take away the rights of Americans. As historian Stephen Vaughn wrote:

“[I]n the United States during 1917-18 nearly every right guaranteed under the Constitution was either abridged or nullified, especially freedom of the press and freedom of speech.”

That was only 100 years ago.

More recently, in 1931, the president of Columbia University said in a public speech that there are two ways to choose leaders: elections and dictatorship, and dictatorship

appears to bring into authority and power men of far greater intelligence, far stronger character and far more courage than does the system of election.

Fortunately, World War II showed the value of democracy over authoritarianism.

So it’s time for all Americans who believe in democracy ― Democrats and Republicans, progressives and conservatives ― to speak out against Trump’s attack on journalism. Republicans who think they can use Trump to enact their long-sought-after policy victories are putting ideology before country.

Tell your elected officials they have to stand on the side of democracy. It shouldn’t be a partisan issue. Opposing authoritarianism should be one thing Democrats and Republicans can agree on.Anti-Semitic hate crimes comprise the largest portion of religiously motivated attacks in the United States. In New York City alone, such attacks have more than doubled already in 2017. But President Donald Trump has yet to address the issue.

In press conferences last week, the president had two opportunities to address concerns over rising anti-Semitism. And in both instances, he downplayed or altogether denied the issue.

During a joint press conference with Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday, Israeli journalist Moav Vardi asked what the U.S. president would say to those in the Jewish community who “believe and feel that your administration is playing with xenophobia and maybe racist tones.”

Trump responded not by addressing anti-Semitism and xenophobia, but rather by bragging about his election victory. “Well, I just want to say that we are, you know, very honored by the victory that we had: 306 Electoral College votes,” Trump said.

He went on to say that “we are going to have peace in this country,” vowing to stop crime and “long-simmering racism and every other thing that’s going on.” He added that he has lots of Jewish friends, including his daughter, Ivanka, and her husband, Jared Kushner.

The following day, Jewish journalist Jake Turx asked Trump about the 48 bomb threats have been made against Jewish centers around the country in recent weeks and what the administration was doing to combat anti-Semitism.

Before Turx could finish his question, though, Trump cut him off and told him to sit down. “See, he said he was going to ask a very simple, easy question, and it’s not,” the president said.

Trump went on to tell the Jewish reporter: “I am the least anti-Semitic person that you’ve ever seen in your entire life.” The president seemed to interpret Turx’s question as a personal jab, saying, “I hate the charge. I find it repulsive.”

Pressed later on the issue by another journalist, Trump implied that reports of anti-Semitism were being manufactured by his political opponents.

While the president weighs the validity of reported anti-Semitic attacks, at least five more Jewish communities around the country received by bomb threats on Monday.

Jewish leader Malcolm Hoenlein, speaking at a conference in Jerusalem on Sunday, indicated that the U.S. Jewish community was holding Trump accountable to finally address the issue. “I think that the president helps set the tone for a country,” Hoenlein said. “I’m hopeful that what he said about ... addressing hate and racism of all kinds in American society will be translated into clear action.”

That same day ― in what may be the clearest “action” on anti-Semitism thus far ― Vice President Mike Pence paid a visit to the former Nazi concentration camp at Dachau, Germany. Pence tweeted about the “moving and emotional tour” afterward, saying: “We can never forget atrocities against Jews and others in the Holocaust.”

Moving and emotional tour of Dachau today. We can never forget atrocities against Jews and others in the Holocaust. pic.twitter.com/69GWN2DKDF — Vice President Pence (@VP) February 19, 2017

Trump’s failure to adequately address anti-Semitism ― compounded by his Holocaust Remembrance Day statement, which unlike Pence’s tweet made no mention of Jewish victims ― has worried some Jewish leaders.

American Jewish Committee CEO David Harris said in a Feb. 16 statement that with anti-Semitism on the rise in the U.S. and around the world, the government needs to respond.A new proposal from the Trump administration would increase screenings on visitors from China.

The notice from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection details a proposition to ask Chinese visitors on business or tourism visas for their social media handles before they travel to the country.

Customs and Border Patrol officers could use the social media information, which is optional to disclose, for examination.

“This data will be used for vetting purposes, as needed, providing highly trained CBP officers with timely visibility into publicly available information on the platforms associated with the social media identifier(s) voluntarily provided by the applicant,” the notice stated.

Through the Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS), an electronic system in which international visitors with 10-year U.S. visas must enroll, Chinese travelers would be asked for their social media handles and corresponding platforms, the CBP proposes.

An officer would review the accounts, staying consistent with the user’s privacy settings, the notice says. And the information obtained would help discern between individuals with “similar characteristics, such as similar names,” and also provide another means to contact the applicant.

Those who choose not to reveal their social media information wouldn’t be negatively affected, according to the proposal, which will be published in the Federal Register on Tuesday.

“The collection of social media identifiers will not be used to prevent travel based on an applicant’s race, ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation,” Jennifer Evanitsky, CBP spokeswoman, elaborated to Politico. “The social media provider will not be asked to violate any privacy settings or policies.”

The outlet points out that the Obama administration also employed a similar screening check. However, it gave visitors from a variety of countries ― including several European and other developed nations ― the option to disclose their social media handles through the Visa Waiver Program.

The proposal to include Chinese visitors in social media screenings has become cause for alarm among some groups like Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Los Angeles (AAAJ-LA), which says it’s concerned that there’s more to the idea than meets the eye.

“As a civil rights organization, we fear that proposals such as the proposed social media check will be largely ineffective as a national security screen and will serve primarily to allow the discriminatory targeting of Chinese immigrants and visitors at border checkpoints,” the group wrote in a statement to The Huffington Post.

Moreover, AAAJ-LA fears that the “scrutiny” of Chinese visitors could fuel anti-Chinese sentiment in the country.

A 2015 LA hate crime report released by the Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations revealed that anti-Asian hate crimes in the county had tripled. Most of the incidents were anti-Chinese and the nonprofit suspects that the spike had to do with President Donald Trump’s painting of China as a threat during the election.

Karin Wang, the group’s vice-president, explained to the Huffington Post last month that there were several statements made during his campaign that reflected this message including a 2015 announcement, in which Trump said that “ISIS, China, Mexico are all beating us.” He also brought up China’s trade and military powers.

Wang told HuffPost that Trump’s note “really reinforces the dangerous foreign enemy image, even though he describes China’s threat as one of trade.”

There will be a 60-day comment period, starting on Tuesday, during which people can voice their concerns and suggest revisions. AAAJ-LA hopes those in the Asian-American community will take part in airing their opinions.President Donald Trump’s approval ratings have bounced around pretty wildly during his first four weeks in office. There has been a 36-point swing across this period of time ― his net approval has ranged from a disapproval rating 18 points higher than his approval rating to an approval rating 18 points higher than his disapproval rating.

The HuffPost Pollster chart illustrates the instability:

Several articles have been written about these widely ranging numbers, and the HuffPost Pollster team has been considering the issue. The answer seems to be less about instability in what Americans think of Trump than it is about polling methods. The variation in Trump’s job approval ratings has been driven by a few factors: how and when the poll was conducted, who was polled and whether it was conducted by a specific pollster.

To look at what’s affecting these numbers, I took all of the polls on the new president’s approval rating collected in the HuffPost Pollster database. Seventy-one publicly released polls that meet our disclosure criteria have been conducted between Jan. 20 and Feb. 17 (excluding the results by party, which you’ll see on the downloadable spreadsheet).

The HuffPost Pollster database includes a few details about how the polls were conducted in addition to recording the numbers, sample size and dates. For one thing, it considers the poll’s “mode” ― if respondents were contacted and interviewed via live interviewer telephone, internet, or a combination of automated phone and internet. The database also considers the polling “population” ― meaning whether the respondents were American adults, registered voters or likely voters.

Those differences account for the vast majority of the differences in Trump’s net approval rating (percent approve minus percent disapprove). A model that includes the poll’s mode, population, sample size, length of time in the field (number of days), undecided proportion, week of the Trump presidency (numbered 1-4), and with variables for Rasmussen’s and Gallup’s daily trackers explains 86 percent of the variance in the approval ratings across polls.

Not all of those things are statistically significant predictors of variance, though. The chart below shows the regression model effects with 95 percent confidence intervals. If the vertical blue bar crosses the black horizontal zero line, the effect is not statistically significant ― meaning we can’t say with 95 percent certainty that it affects Trump’s ratings. If the blue vertical bar is completely above or below the zero line, then we can say with 95 percent certainty that the aspect of the poll affects Trump’s ratings.

The most important factors are population, mode, the timing of the poll ― week of the presidency and how many days the poll was collecting data ― and whether it was conducted by Rasmussen. The only factor that is even remotely attributable to Trump’s actual job performance is the week of the presidency. The rest are about the surveys’ methods.

The model also included the sample size of the poll and the proportion of undecided responses in the poll, but both had effects near zero, so were eliminated from the chart.

A brief technical note: Daily tracking polls from Rasmussen and Gallup only appear on the chart when all of the data are new (e.g., every three days for a three-day rolling average), but this analysis includes all of their daily reports. (R code is available here. Data available here.)

Rasmussen polls are giving Trump the largest bump in his net approval, even accounting for all of the other factors in the model. That can’t be attributed to their using a different mode or population than other polls, since both factors are also included in the model. We don’t have enough information to say what is causing it, but no other pollster has a significant effect on net approval, much less an effect that large.

Polls of registered voters give Trump about a 5 to 6 percentage point boost over those that report results for all American adults. That makes sense: All Americans tend to be more liberal than registered voters. Internet polls give Trump about an 8 percentage point jump in net approval over polls conducted by telephone. And for each additional day the poll is in the field, Trump loses a little more than a percentage point in his net approval rating.

The one variable that probably is related to Trump’s actual performance as president is the timing of the poll. As Trump’s presidency has progressed over the past month, his approval has dipped. He’s lost nearly 3 percentage points in net approval each week across the first four weeks.

Since the Rasmussen effect was so large, I re-ran the model without any of those polls. Nothing changed ― no other pollster stood out in Rasmussen’s absence, and the same variables were statistically significant at very near the same values. That model explained 78 percent of the variance in Trump’s net approval ratings.

All of these effects make a great case for looking at polling aggregates to assess Trump’s approval ratings. There’s no way of knowing which set of numbers most accurately measures what Americans think of the job Trump is doing in office. Unlike election polls, which can be compared to election results, there won’t be a national vote on approving or disapproving of Trump for comparison.

The discrepancy between individual poll results is precisely why polling aggregates are useful to those without the in-depth polling expertise to discern why numbers vary and which might be right. And HuffPost Pollster’s charts allow customization and filtering for those who do have the expertise and want to look at differences by population, mode or pollster.President Donald Trump and his aides keep insisting that his presidency has already yielded progress on a historic scale. “I don’t think there’s ever been a president elected who in this short period of time has done what we’ve done,” Trump said at a press conference last week.

Actually, Trump’s immediate predecessor achieved a lot more. That’s partly because President Barack Obama took office amid a real crisis, as opposed to the fake one Trump keeps insisting he faces. But it’s also because the two men approached their campaigns, and now their presidencies, so differently.

In particular, Trump has no apparent patience for the boring, slow work of politics ― like developing detailed policy plans, or working them out with congressional leaders. And without that kind of unglamorous work, getting stuff done turns out to be awfully difficult.

Consider the way the two presidents have approached a signature issue they have in common: infrastructure.

Trump’s Infrastructure Plan, And Why It’s Slipping

Trump talked about infrastructure constantly on the campaign trail, vowing to build roads, trains, and airports. As a brash outsider, Trump promised, he could force such a program through Congress. And as a real estate developer, he insisted he was uniquely qualified to design and implement what was basically a huge construction program.

But it wasn’t until two weeks before Election Day that Trump finally released a proposal with some policy details. And it didn’t line up that closely with what he’d been describing on the campaign trail. His previous rhetoric had made it sound like Trump wanted to be another FDR, borrowing massive amounts of money in order to finance a building binge that would put people back to work. The actual Trump plan turned out to be something very different: A series of tax breaks to make large infrastructure projects more profitable for businesses.

In a December interview with The New York Times, Trump confessed that he was still figuring out exactly what he wanted to do ― and that he hadn’t realized FDR-style infrastructure building might alienate conservatives. “That’s not a very Republican thing ― I didn’t even know that, frankly.”

Soon, administration officials began hinting that infrastructure might not be a first 100 days program, as Trump had promised. And since then, the whole idea has slipped farther and farther down on the political agenda. Trump still mentions it in public appearances, but the two legislative leaders he needs to get an infrastructure bill through Congress, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) have made clear they are ambivalent, at best, about the whole project. If they are coordinating closely behind the scenes, they are keeping it a very good secret.

Obama’s Infrastructure Plan ― And Why It Became Law

This is not how things transpired eight years ago, when Obama took office. And one reason is that he didn’t wait so long before drawing up plans. During the presidential campaign, he developed and then ran on a detailed policy agenda, including an infrastructure proposal. The initial version was small. But the rapidly deteriorating economy convinced Obama and his aides they needed something much bigger. And, once the campaign was over, they began hashing out how to do that.

“We started working on Wednesday morning after the election,” said economist Jason Furman, who advised Obama during the campaign and then in the White House. Over the following month, Obama’s economic team put together a 57-page memo on the economic crisis, including a series of options for how the federal government could address it. Obama went through it and, in December, he decided on the rough shape and size of what he wanted to propose, including about $350 billion for infrastructure.

And the work didn’t stop there. “It was the biggest subject of the transition for the economic team,” recalled University of Chicago economist Austan Goolsbee, who also served in the Obama campaign and the administration. “As transition moved [from Chicago] to Washington, there were scores of meetings over all various aspects of the stimulus pretty much every day. Each of the proto-agency teams would come up with ideas … and those ideas would be hammered out in budget meetings and principals meetings, and with the president.”

Obama’s team put just as much muscle into outreach with Congress. Furman remembered “an intensive series of Hill meetings with leadership, authorizers and appropriators to orally convey all of these ideas, the size, the composition and many of the specifics. One day just before Christmas break, the meeting was literally about 12 hours long in a huge room in the Capitol, and we set up a schedule as staff rotated in and out to go through about six or so different topic areas ― that was for appropriations ― with parallel meetings with Ways and Means and Finance.”

Even after laying this groundwork, and with the economy in freefall, getting the stimulus through Congress was a big political lift. But the prep work meant that Obama and his allies could move the debate along quickly. They knew what they wanted, they had already out worked their message, and could cut deals as necessary. On Feb. 17, 2009, Obama signed the Recovery Act. The roughly $800 billion economic stimulus included $98 billion in dedicated infrastructure spending, plus billions more that went to infrastructure through separate channels, such as aid to state and local governments.

This Is How Trump Governs

Trump’s party has 52 seats in the Senate, while Obama’s had 59. But the Democratic caucus back then included plenty of conservatives representing Republican states and nervous about big spending. And some Democrats now are actually offering to help Trump on infrastructure, much to the dismay of many liberals. Republicans offered Obama no such assistance. (Obama famously learned that Republicans would oppose his package as he was on his way up to Capitol Hill, a week after inauguration, in order to discuss possible legislative dealmaking.)

Had Trump put even half the effort into infrastructure that Obama did, he might be in a position to take advantage of that Democratic cooperation ― and pass a bill that would not only be popular, but might also be good for the economy. But that’s not what Trump did ― on infrastructure or any other issue, for that matter.

During the presidential campaign, Trump mocked Hillary Clinton for her wonkishness: “She’s got people that sit in cubicles writing policy all day,” he said during one interview. “It’s just a waste of paper.” At one point, Trump’s own policy advisers quit because nobody was paying them or taking them seriously.A set Department of Homeland Security memoranda released Tuesday reveal that President Donald Trump has declared an open season on the deportation of undocumented immigrants.

“The Department will no longer exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement,” one document says.

They also expanded Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s ability to perform expedited removals on people who have been living in the U.S. for up to two years. The U.S. will also prosecute the parents of unaccompanied minors as smugglers, according to the documents.

DHS directed ICE to hire 10,000 additional people to get the job done, according to one of the memos.

The document does indicate that the priority remains “removable aliens” who have been convicted of a crime or charged with a crime.

It does not, to the chagrin of many conservatives, suggest any changes to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA.

Advocacy groups were quick to denounce the documents.

“These memos are breathtaking in scope,” Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center, said Tuesday on a press call. “They basically throw the rule of law out the window.”

The most concerning aspect is the ability to carry out expedited deportations, Lee Gelernt, an American Civil Liberties Union attorney, told The Huffington Post.

“You can now have people whisked away out of Chicago or St. Louis, anywhere in the country and there’s no due process,” he said.

But the organization vowed to fight.

“President Trump does not have the last word here — the courts and the public will not allow this un-American dream to become reality,” Omar Jadwat, director of the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, said in a statement.

Trump consistently promised previously to crack down on undocumented immigrants both throughout his campaign and since he assumed office.

Rights groups reported an uptick in ICE arrests last week. However, an ICE official appeared to contradict that statement during a press call, saying that the activity was “routine” and agencies only targeted certain cities in an “enforcement surge.”

Activists told HuffPost last week that the crackdown in Austin, Texas, consisted of ICE agents stopping undocumented immigrants in traffic, attempting to arrest them in their homes and patrolling the area around a grocery store.

The Obama administration made a point of prioritizing those with criminal histories for deportation. Tuesday’s memo indicates a radical departure from that norm, opening up the basis for removal from the U.S. to pretty much anyone.

The document does indicate that the priority remains “removable aliens” who have been convicted of a crime or charged with a crime. That policy is in line with what Trump had emphasized up until last week.

The crackdown on illegal criminals is merely the keeping of my campaign promise. Gang members, drug dealers & others are being removed! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 12, 2017

There were an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. in 2014, based on Pew statistics.

Trump had hinted that he planned to deport 2 million to 3 million people in a “60 Minutes” interview in November.

You can read the memos in full below:

Kim Bellware contributed to this report.Friends, I welcome you to “The Michael Moore Easy-to-Follow 10-Point Plan to Stop Trump.”

First, let’s acknowledge what we all know to be true: Trump is in deep, deep trouble ― in the pocket of Russians, surrounded by alt.right idiots, alone in his bathrobe in a mostly-empty White House ― and caught inside a disgusting “shit-sandwich”, so said his supporter who turned down the NSA job.

Only one month into his So-Called Presidency ― and yet there is good news, as this is what the American landscape looks like:

Tens of thousands of citizens across the country have stormed Congressional district offices and town hall meetings to express their rage at the Trump agenda (a dejected Republican congressman, after a 3-hour verbal assault from his angry constituents, said on TV last night, “let’s face it - they [the Obamacare supporters] have won.”).

A federal court halted Trump’s first Muslim Ban ― actually, make that FOUR federal courts have ruled against him! He’s conceded defeat and will not appeal to the Supreme Court (though he will try a new ban - and good luck with that, you son of a Scottish immigrant).

Progressive Democrat Congressman Keith Ellison appears to be the front-runner for this Saturday’s vote to head the Democratic Party ― and to FIX the whole damn mess! Also, a recruitment drive has begun across the country to find the best local candidates to run for state and federal offices in 2018. Millions are committed to never letting the Debacle of ‘16 happen again.

Our beautiful Army of Comedy - with its Platoon of Satirists led by Alec Baldwin and Melissa McCarthy - is killing it! The devastating impersonation of White House spokesman Sean Spicer by McCarthy has Trump fuming to the point where he has considered getting rid of Spicer. Politico says he simply can’t watch one of his top aides being portrayed by...a woman!

So the momentum is with us right now ― and if we all just take a little time to do the Action Plan below, I’m convinced we’ll succeed in halting the dark force that is Trump. We can tie him up in knots at every turn, and eventually, we can bring him down.

So let’s get started with our...

10-POINT ACTION PLAN TO STOP TRUMP

1. THE DAILY CALL: You must call Congress every day. Yes - YOU! 202-225-3121. It will take just TWO MINUTES! Make it part of your daily routine, one of those five things you do every morning without even thinking about it:

Wake up. Brush teeth. Walk dog (or stare at cat). Make coffee. Call Congress.

It is impossible to overstate just how much power you have by making this simple, quick DAILY CALL. I know from firsthand experience the impact it has. These politicians freak out if they get just 10 calls on an issue. Imagine them getting 10,000! Holy crap - the dome will pop off that building!

NOTE: if you’re saying to yourself, “I don’t need to call because my rep is a Democrat!” ― that is NOT true. They need to hear from you. They need to know they have your support. Don’t believe it? Our beloved Sen. Elizabeth Warren voted in favor of Ben Carson as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development! I’m sure no one in Massachusetts thought they had to call her. YOU DO! She and the other Dems need to hear from the boss ― YOU! They work for us ― and what boss doesn’t have daily contact with his or her employees?

It’s easy to make The Daily Call. To call your U.S. member of Congress or Senators in D.C., dial 202-225-3121 (or 202-224-3121 if busy). It’s even better to call their direct line. For Senators, find each of their numbers here. For the direct line to your member in the House of Representatives, here.

Here’s some great news: Someone has created an app to make this very easy: Go to the App Store and get “5 Calls.” The app will dial the friggin’ phone for you and give you talking points for when you speak to your reps!

Here’s what a sample week of your DAILY CALL can look like:

On Monday, call your Congressman/woman and tell them you do not want them to repeal Obamacare. In fact, you want them to improve it so that we have single-payer universal health care like all other “civilized” countries.

On Tuesday, call the first of your two U.S. Senators and tell him to vote NO on Rick Perry for Secretary of Energy. He couldn’t even remember there was a Department of Energy - or what it did!

On Wednesday, call your other U.S. Senator. Demand she do everything in her power to block the appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court.

On Thursday, call your local State House/Assembly representative in your state capital. Tell her you want the House to vote for legislation that prohibits the incarceration of nonviolent drug users.

On Friday, call your State Senator. Tell him you want him to support all efforts to reduce those activities which cause climate change.

If you’d rather to write to your reps, you can find the best way to do that for each of them here by typing in your address on: democracy.io.

I will post updates on the actions we’re fighting for each day and week on my Twitter and Facebook pages. If you want to know what to call your reps about, I encourage you to follow me right now on Facebook and on Twitter at @MMFlint. All my social media sites are at my website www.michaelmoore.com.

Remember ― A call a day keeps the Trump away.

2. THE MONTHLY VISIT: To add even more pressure, SHOW UP! Your member of Congress has a local office in your town or somewhere nearby. So do both of your U.S. Senators (often in the nearest federal building). Go there and ask to speak to their aide about the issues we’re facing (again, I will continually post them on my social media sites).

Also, don’t forget to visit the local office (or the state capitol office) of your State Representative/Assemblyperson, and your State Senator.

And, if you’re lucky to live within driving distance of Washington, DC, show up on Capitol Hill and pay an unannounced (it’s legal!) in-person visit to your U.S. Senators and your Congressman/woman. They pay serious attention to this. It blows their mind that you’d drive that far to see them. Do it!

I know not everyone has the time to do THE MONTHLY VISIT ― but if you can, please do!

3. YOUR OWN PERSONAL RAPID RESPONSE TEAM: You and 5 to 20 friends and family members must become your personal RAPID RESPONSE TEAM. Sign everybody up so that when we need to leap into action (like we did at the airports the hour after Trump signed his Muslim Ban), you can email and text each other and make an instant plan. On other days, you’ll share links to good investigative stories and TV news items. Come up with a name for your RAPID RESPONSE TEAM ― mine is called “The V for Vendetta Rapid Response Team” and it consists of myself, my daughter and son-in-law (and their new baby!); my two sisters, their spouses and adult children; my cousin; 8 friends; 6 co-workers; and my next door neighbor. That’s 27 of us and we live from Seattle to Michigan to Maryland. And each of them are forming their own local Rapid Response Teams. So that means the 27 on my team are so far responsible for 405 new Rapid Responders overnight! And each of those 405 are doing the same ― they’re recruiting their own 5-20 people ― and BOOM! 4,050 more Rapid Responders tomorrow ― and growing!

4. JOIN! JOIN! JOIN!: We all know it’s time for all of us to be part of a greater whole, so let’s actually physically sign up online and JOIN some of our great national groups. I’ve joined Planned Parenthood, ACLU, Black Lives Matter, Democratic Socialists of America, and ERA Action. Some charge money to join, so if you don’t have much, pick the lowest amount ($5 for ACLU for example) ― or join groups that don’t charge anything (but if you can help them financially, please do). They will keep you informed of national actions and fight for us in court.

5. THE WOMEN’S MARCH NEVER ENDS: The historical, record-breaking January 21st Women’s March on Washington ― and the hundreds of other Marches that day across the U.S. and the world, with over 4 million in attendance! ― brought massive numbers of people out who had never protested in their lives. It inspired millions of others and ignited so many local movements we still can’t count them all. The day after the Women’s March, another two dozen protests took place. The day after that, 2,000 Utahans jammed into their state capitol in Salt Lake City. Then, on the following Saturday, tens of thousands of Americans occupied their local airports to oppose Trump’s Muslim ban. And on and on and on. Every day ― still! ― dozens of actions continue to take place as if the Women’s March never ended. It hasn’t. Join it!

I and a group of friends have set up THE RESISTANCE CALENDAR that is updated daily, where you can find out what actions are taking place near where you live. All you have to do is type in your city or state in the search bar.

It’s critical that large numbers of us continue to march, protest, sit-in, and be very visible ― to Trump, so he knows we are the majority; to put the Dems on notice that we expect them to grow a spine; to our fellow Americans who live in Boise or Tulsa or Grand Rapids and have been feeling alone and afraid since the election. Our mass presence reminds them the people didn’t elect Trump. And it is good for each of us to operate in concert with each other, to feel the solidarity and the hope.

And the official Women’s March on Washington ― they’ve called for a national Women’s Strike on March 8th. Let’s join them!

6. TAKE OVER THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY: The old guard of the party has twice in 16 years presided over the majority of Americans electing the Democrat to the White House ― only for us all to see the losing Republican inaugurated as president. How is it that we have won the popular vote in SIX OF THE LAST SEVEN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS ― the Republicans have only won ONCE since 1988 ― and yet, we hold NO power in any branch of government?! That, plus losing 1,000 local seats in this election that the Dems use to hold ― plus watching many Dems in Congress unwilling to stand up to Trump ― PLEASE, the old leadership has to go. God love ‘em for their contributions in the past, but if we don’t enact a radical overhaul right now, we are doomed as far as having a true opposition party during the Trump era. And that, more than anything, will help to usher in the vise-grip of a totalitarian culture.

You must do two things:

Let the DNC know that THIS SATURDAY, February 25th, the Democratic National Committee MUST elect reform and progressive candidate, Congressman Keith Ellison, as the new DNC chair. Keith is a former community organizer, the first Muslim elected to Congress, and a key backer of Bernie Sanders. He not only has Bernie’s support ―and mine―but he’s also backed by Chuck Schumer, Harry Reid, Gloria Steinem, John Lewis and many others. Sign his petition of support at www.keithfordnc.org/howyoucanhelp. Let the DNC know how you feel.

And locally, you need to start attending your county Democratic meetings. If possible, organize your friends and others and take over your local Dem organization. More on this at a later date.

7. HELP FORM BLUE REGIONS OF RESISTANCE: People keep saying to me, “Mike - I live in a Blue State - what can I do?” If you live in a Blue State, you have one of the MOST important tasks to complete: Show the rest of America what it looks like when Trump isn’t in charge! Blue States and Blue Cities must do an end-run around Trump and create the America we want to live in. That means New York goes ahead and offers Free College for All. California can create its own Universal Health Care. Oregon can stop mass incarceration of African Americans. Hawaii can enact its own climate change laws. Blue States can show the rest of country how much better life can be. Important historical note: Before Roe v. Wade made abortion legal, California and New York passed their own state laws to make it legal. This greatly helped pave the way for CHOICE being the new normal ― and the enactment of Row v. Wade.

8. YOU MUST RUN FOR OFFICE: I know, that’s the LAST thing you want to do. But if we keep leaving the job up to the dismal, lame, pathetic political hacks who have sold us all down the river, then what right do we have to complain? This is only going to get fixed when you and I decide we are willing to put in our time ― even if it is a brief time ― and run for office. I ran when I was 18 and got elected. You can, too. We need good candidates for the 2018 elections ― and not just Congress and State Houses, but also school boards, city councils and county commissions. Why not take out a petition today and run next year? Heck, I’ll bet I’ll even support you!

I realize most of you can’t do this ― but there is one office every one of us can and SHOULD run for next year: PRECINCT DELEGATE. Every precinct, every neighborhood can elect x-number of Dems to the county Democratic Convention. It’s on the ballot and it’s usually blank - no one runs for it. So the precinct delegates end up being appointed by the party hacks. And that’s who ends up eventually at the national convention to pick the next presidential candidate. So this is an important position to run for. The time commitment is just 3 hours a year! You attend the county convention ― that’s it. Call your city or county clerk and find out how to get on the ballot. If you’ll do it, I’ll do it. It’s the first step to making sure we put a candidate on the ballot who can win.

9. YOU MUST BECOME THE MEDIA: Stop complaining about the media, stop wishing they were something they’re not, find the ones who are doing a good job and then start your own “media empire” by sharing their work and your work on the internet. Use Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat and other social media sites to spread news and information. Make sure all your friends and family are signed up. Yes, I’m talking to you, Baby Boomers. Get over it, put down your postage stamps and your “TV clicker” and find a six-year old to show you how to start tweeting. You can be your own reporter, your own editor. You can curate the news for your friends. And now Facebook lets you have your own network with Facebook Live! It’s all free. Get on social media now. Imagine, your own CNN is in the palm of your hand...

10. JOIN THE ARMY OF COMEDY: Trump’s Achilles heel is his massively thin skin. He can’t take mockery. So we all need to MOCK HIM UP! Not just the brilliant people at SNL or Colbert, Seth Myers or Samantha Bee ― but YOU. Use your sense of humor and share it with people. Get them to do the same. Keep sending around the SNL links spoofing Sean Spicer, Trump and Kellyanne ― there’s no such thing as watching them too many times! Hahaha. I truly believe the final tipping point for Trump will be when he implodes from all the laughter ― the mocking, the unbearable ridicule of tens of millions of Americans that will discombobulate him and force him out of the White House. I know this seems like Mike’s fever dream, but I believe it can work. I don’t know what happened to Trump in boarding school at 13 and I don’t care. Whatever it was, let’s use it. He’s used all the other things he picked up over the years - misogyny, bigotry, greed - against the powerless and the unfortunate. It’s time to laugh him outta town. And if there’s one thing we all could use right now is a good laugh ― AND the possibility of a much-shortened presidential term.

So, there you go! The 10-Point Action Plan to Thump Trump. Something for everyone. And every one of us needs to do them. Please share this and spread the word. We can stop him. We can nonviolently block and obstruct halt the damage he’s doing. But it’s going to need ― and take ― ALL HANDS ON DECK!

Let’s make Trump toast again.Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt mentioned a “toxic environment” just once during his first address Tuesday to the embattled agency staff.

But he wasn’t talking about industry pollution or conserving nature. He was referring to his critics’ political rhetoric.

“Forgive the reference, but it’s a very toxic environment,” the controversial new administrator said in the speech, which lasted under 20 minutes.

“Civility is something I believe in very much,” he added. “We ought to be able to get together and wrestle through some issues in a civil manner.”

Then, at last, he began to outline his vision for the EPA. He described an agency that prioritized making it easier for polluters to comply with regulations. He promised to listen intently to companies before saddling them with new regulations. He admonished his new employees, some fearing layoffs amid looming budget cuts, for acting outside the agency’s legal mandate and running roughshod over states’ rights.

“Regulations ought to make things regular,” Pruitt said. “Regulations exist to give certainty to those they regulate. Those we regulate ought to know what’s expected of them so they can place and allocate resources to comply.”

He did not mention climate change or environmental destruction.

Pruitt, the former attorney general of Oklahoma, was sworn in last Friday after the Senate voted 52-46 to confirm his nomination. His confirmation came a day after Judge Aletia Haynes Timmons of the District Court of Oklahoma County ruled that the Oklahoma attorney general’s office must turn over more than 2,500 emails and correspondence between Pruitt and oil and gas firms. The ruling was in response to a lawsuit from watchdog group Center for Media and Democracy and the American Civil Liberties Union alleging that his office had violated Oklahoma’s open records law.

“Scott Pruitt’s going to have a lot of questions to answer,” said Nick Surgey, the director of research at the Madison, Wisconsin-based Center for Media and Democracy, referring to the emails. “The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, on day three, is already talking about putting the interests of the environment against the interests of industry.”

Democrats had sought to delay a vote on his confirmation until after those documents were released. Pruitt’s former office is expected to respond by the judge’s Tuesday evening deadline.

Pruitt made his reputation suing the EPA 13 times, repeatedly joining oil, gas and coal players ― including Oklahoma Gas & Electric and the Domestic Energy Producers Alliance, an industry-backed group ― in filing lawsuits to halt regulations. He forged what The New York Times in 2014 called an “unprecedented, secretive alliance” between Republican attorneys general and oil and gas companies to undermine environmental regulations. In 2011, he allowed Devon Energy, an Oklahoma oil and gas firm, to write a three-page complaint to the EPA under his letterhead, which he signed. Pruitt also championed the rights of Exxon Mobil Corp. in investigations into whether the oil giant committed fraud by covering up evidence that burning fossil fuels changes the climate.

In turn, the fossil fuel industry donated more than $300,000 to Pruitt between 2002 and 2016, and even more money to a political action committee and a super PAC that paid for the former Oklahoma attorney general’s trips to Hawaii and New Orleans.

“I believe we as an agency and we as a nation can be both pro-energy and jobs and pro-environment,” Pruitt said Tuesday, regurgitating a line he used during his confirmation hearing last month. “We don’t have to choose between the two.”

Pruitt’s contentious confirmation drew scorn from a variety of critics. He even plans to request an around-the-clock bodyguard from his agency, according to a report by E&E News. A senior energy official at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the country’s largest trade group with a history of combatting environmental rules, warned the new administration against repealing a 2009 EPA endangerment finding that classified greenhouse gases as a threat to public health and welfare. The comment underscores growing acceptance of the science of man-made global warming, particularly given that the Chamber’s official policy priorities for 2017 “oppose EPA efforts to regulate greenhouse gases under the existing Clean Air Act, including the endangerment finding.”

Joshua Roberts / Reuters Pruitt opened his speech on Tuesday with yet another anecdote about his love of baseball.

“There’s going to be hell to pay from, you know, soccer moms and soccer dads all throughout the country,” Christopher Guith, the energy official, said last month, according to a transcript published by the nonprofit Energy and Policy Institute. “People who probably voted for Donald Trump.”

President Donald Trump has made slashing environmental restrictions a top priority, and the EPA is a prime target of his regulatory bushwhacking. He tapped Myron Ebell, a once-fringe contrarian who peddles conspiracy theories about climate change, to lead the EPA transition team. Soon after the inauguration, the White House ordered the EPA to freeze grants, putting a vast array of projects and personnel in limbo. That freeze has been lifted, but the White House is considering gutting the EPA’s budget, which makes up just 0.22 percent of federal spending. A policy memo leaked to Axios proposed deep cuts to the EPA’s budget, including axing hundreds of millions from grants to states and Native American tribes, climate programs, and environmental programs and management.

Trump’s transition team also instructed agency employees to halt all press releases, social media, blog posts and external speaking engagements ― giving rise to rogue Twitter accounts claiming to represent the views of the silenced regulators. The team announced plans to review all EPA studies before publication, stoking fears that the new administration might stifle research on issues such as climate change.

For some, Trump’s proposed cuts may not go far enough. Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) introduced a bill to “completely abolish” the EPA by the end of next year, as HuffPost reported.WASHINGTON ― School administrators in a 93 percent white Maryland county recently asked high school teachers to take down pro-diversity posters from classrooms because they perceived them as “political” and “anti-Trump,” a school spokesperson told The Huffington Post.

Teachers at Westminster High School had put up the posters, which depicted Latina, Muslim and black women and were designed by Shepard Fairey, the artist who created the “Hope” posters featuring President Barack Obama in 2008. The women are rendered in patriotic colors, with messages like “We the people are greater than fear.” The teachers put up the posters as a “show of diversity,” said Carey Gaddis, a spokeswoman for Carroll County Public Schools.

At least one staff member complained about the posters, and the teachers were “asked to take them down because they were being perceived as anti-Trump by the administration,” Gaddis said.

After taking the posters down, the teachers were initially allowed to put them up again. But the administration did some further investigation online and determined that the posters could be seen as political. The school does not allow teachers to put up political posters in their classrooms “unless it’s part of a curriculum and they represent both sides,” Gaddis said. (The story was first reported by the Carroll County Times.)

President Donald Trump took office vowing to crack down on immigration and ban Muslims from traveling to the United States, promises that he has already tried to fulfill. His administration is also stacked with anti-immigration hard-liners, and his campaign won early support from prominent white nationalists, whom Trump has unconvincingly sought to disavow.

The art recognizes groups that may feel marginalized under the Trump administration. But it is “definitely NOT anti-Trump in nature,” said Aaron Huey, a photojournalist whose organization collaborated with Fairey on the posters.

Fairey told HuffPost in an emailed statement that the idea behind the “We the People” campaign is that, “equality, respect, and religious freedom are unassailable American values and non-partisan.” He added, “I find it very disturbing that someone could find those ideas specifically, and by extension inclusion in general, to be partisan or problematic.”

The campaign was intentionally designed not to refer to any president or political party, according to Huey. “Anyone who believes that these messages are dangerous or divisive needs to check themselves,” he said.

Carroll County’s school system has struggled to attract more diverse staff, according to a report filed with the school board last year, and only about 4 percent of its employees identify as minorities. Jim Doolan, who was board president at the time, told the Carroll County Times in 2016 that when he first came to the school system to teach more than 30 years ago, he would find Ku Klux Klan invitations on his car windshield.

Carroll County also has a reputation as a place where people of color don’t want to be after work hours, Superintendent Stephen Guthrie told the Times. Staff members said they were trying to change that perception.

Westminster High School’s mission includes preaching “tolerance [and] acceptance of diversity,” said Steven Johnson, the county’s assistant superintendent for instruction.

The principal is looking into alternative images that people can display, Johnson said. But he likened the issue to the controversy over the Confederate battle flag.

“The Confederate flag in and of itself has no image of slavery or hatred or oppression, but it’s symbolic of that,” Johnson told HuffPost. “These posters have absolutely no mention of Trump or any other political issue ― it’s the symbolism of what they were representing. They were carried in these protests.”

Hamial Waince, a 17-year-old student at Westminster High and president of a women’s math and science club, said she has faced discrimination around town as a Pakistani-American Muslim. But she considers her high school a safe place where people are willing to stand up for her.

“Since the posters were taken down, what does that tell the students?” Waince asked. “That it’s perfectly fine to remove something which supports a moral value that each human being should have?”

Sarah Wack, a 2012 graduate of Westminster High, has started an online fundraiser to print free T-shirts displaying the images for students to wear. Once the shirt order is finalized, Wack says, the balance will be donated to the Amplifier Foundation, the nonprofit that put out the posters.

The students plan to wear the shirts on March 1. (Gaddis said they will be permitted to do so.) As of Tuesday, Wack’s fundraiser had raised over $5,000.

“I’m wearing the shirt to school to stand by those affected by the posters being taken down,” said Delaney McKelvie, a high school senior. “I also hope to get the message across that promoting diversity should be commonplace.”

Ethan Grandinetti, a 17-year-old senior at Winters Mill High School in Carroll County, defended the administrators’ actions in an email to HuffPost, saying he believes his community does embrace diversity.

“Students are welcomed to think freely and the administration acts bipartisanly to do whatever they can to prevent teachers from influencing students’ political opinions,” Grandinetti wrote. He added, “If you are ever in Maryland, I encourage you to come to Carroll County, as we welcome all with open arms.”

The school board has scheduled a meeting about the posters, Gaddis said.

Madi Macera, a junior, said she knows two students ― one black and one of Muslim faith, both of them girls ― who were “upset and disturbed at the sight of teachers having to remove posters containing images of women similar to them from their walls.”

“I want people to understand that these are American people,” said Macera, who is helping to organize the demonstration at the school. “They are a staple of who America is as a whole.”President Donald Trump on Tuesday finally addressed an increase in incidents of anti-Semitism, saying it’s “horrible, and it’s going to stop and has to stop.”

Trump spoke about anti-Semitism while touring the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C., and specifically addressed the recent wave of threats against Jewish community centers across the country.

“The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and Jewish community centers are horrible and painful and a very sad reminder of the work that must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,” he said after the tour.

Trump’s comments on Tuesday were his clearest denouncement of anti-Semitism yet. When asked during a press conference last week about concerns over an uptick in anti-Semitic acts in the United States, Trump responded by calling himself “the least anti-Semitic person that you’ve ever seen in your entire life.” He noted his daughter Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, were Jewish. And he dismissively claimed the anti-Semitism was coming from “the other side.”

Ivanka Trump, who also joined the tour on Tuesday, took a different approach when she tweeted on Monday about the threats against JCCs. “America is a nation built on the principle of religious tolerance. We must protect our houses of worship & religious centers,” she said.TOP STORIES

(And want to get The Morning Email each weekday? Sign up here.)

JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY HIT WITH ANOTHER WAVE OF BOMB THREATS Forcing evacuations in ten states Monday. There have been 67 incidents at 56 Jewish community centers in 27 states and one Canadian province since the start of 2017. Vandals also toppled over 100 headstones at a prominent Jewish cemetery in St. Louis. Ivanka Trump, who converted to Judaism, tweeted about the incidentsMonday, and not all of Twitter was pleased. [HuffPost]

EVEN DEMOCRATS LIKE DONALD TRUMP’S NEW NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster is a widely respected military strategist applauded by both sides of the aisle. And Vice President Mike Pence spoke out about Mike Flynn’s resignation Monday. [HuffPost]

SO IT WAS DEFENDING PEDOPHILIA THAT LOST MILO YIANNOPOULOS HIS BOOK DEAL AND CPAC APPEARANCE Videos emerged of Yiannopoulos appearing to condone sexual relationships between adults and 13-year-old boys. [HuffPost]

ERIC HOLDER TO SPEARHEAD OUTSIDE INVESTIGATION INTO ALLEGATIONS ABOUT UBER’S CULTURE The former U.S. Attorney has been tapped to investigate former employee Susan Fowler’s allegations that Uber fostered an environment of sexual harassment. You can read Fowler’s original post here. [HuffPost]

CHRIS WALLACE GOES AFTER REINCE PRIEBUS FOR TRUMP’S ATTACKS ON THE FREE PRESS “Barack Obama whined about Fox News all the time. But I gotta say, he never said that we were an enemy of the people.” [HuffPost]

FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER ACCUSES RUSSIA OF ELECTION MEDDLING French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault accused Russia of hacking activity in the country, saying “after what happened in the United States, it is our responsibility to take all steps necessary to ensure that the integrity of our democratic process is fully respected.” [HuffPost]

RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N. DIES IN NYC Vitaly Churkin died suddenly of a reported heart attack at the age of 64. [Reuters]

VIDEO EMERGES OF ASSASSINATION OF KIM JONG UN’S BROTHER Kim Jong Nam died after two women wiped a liquid over his face. [HuffPost]The spokesman for the National Security Council says President Donald Trump’s “disturbing” and repeated attempts to undermine the U.S. intelligence community prompted him to resign last week.

In a scorching Washington Post column published Monday, Edward Price, who joined the CIA in 2006 and has been serving as the NSC spokesman, revealed the reasons he “cannot in good faith serve this administration as an intelligence professional.”

Price pointed to several instances in which he said Trump had questioned the integrity of U.S. intelligence agencies, including the president’s tepid response to reports that Russia hacked U.S. officials in an attempt to influence the 2016 presidential election.

But the “final straw,” he said, was Trump’s decision last month to make chief strategist Steve Bannon― whom Price calls “a media champion of white nationalism”― a member of the National Security Council.

MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images Former CIA analyst Edward Price condemned President Donald Trump's decision last month to add chief strategist Steve Bannon, right, to the National Security Council.

“[The White House] has little need for intelligence professionals who, in speaking truth to power, might challenge the so-called ‘America First’ orthodoxy that sees Russia as an ally and Australia as a punching bag,” Price wrote, echoing speculation over the administration’s ties to Russia and referencing a phone call last month in which Trump reportedly accused Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of sending terrorists to the U.S.

“That’s why the president’s trusted White House advisers, not career professionals, reportedly have final say over what intelligence reaches his desk,” the veteran CIA analyst added.

Trump has been increasingly at odds with the U.S. intelligence community. The Wall Street Journal recently reported that intelligence officials have withheld information from the president because they are concerned it could be leaked.

Chaos surrounding the National Security Council has come to a head following retired Gen. Michael Flynn’s resignation as national security adviser earlier this month. Flynn announced his split from the White House after he admitted to having misled Vice President Mike Pence about conversations Flynn had with the Russian ambassador in December regarding U.S. sanctions against Russia.

Trump’s first choice to succeed Flynn, Vice Adm. Robert Harward, reportedly rejected the offer last week after the president’s latest bizarre, unwieldy press conference. Trump announced Monday that Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster will serve as his new national security adviser.President Donald Trump’s statements condemning anti-Semitism are too little, too late, the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect said Tuesday.

The U.S. center’s executive director, Steven Goldstein, slammed Trump’s response as nothing but a “Band-Aid” and reminded Americans of his administration’s history of turning a blind eye to past and present anti-Semitism.

“His statement today is a pathetic asterisk of condescension after weeks in which he and his staff have committed grotesque acts and omissions reflecting Antisemitism, yet day after day have refused to apologize and correct the record,” Goldstein said. “Make no mistake: The Antisemitism coming out of this Administration is the worst we have ever seen from any Administration. The White House repeatedly refused to mention Jews in its Holocaust remembrance, and had the audacity to take offense when the world pointed out the ramifications of Holocaust denial.”

Earlier on Tuesday, Trump made his clearest denouncement of anti-Semitism yet, while touring the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C.

“The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and Jewish community centers are horrible and painful and a very sad reminder of the work that must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,” he said.

His comments come a day after Jewish Community Centers across the U.S. faced another wave of bomb threats, forcing evacuations in 10 states. But threats have been happening for a while; Jewish Community Center Association communications manager Marla Cohen told The Huffington Post on Monday that there have now been at least 67 incidents at 56 Jewish Community Centers in 27 states and one Canadian province since the start of 2017.

Trump shot down a Jewish reporter’s questions about those threats at a press conference last Thursday.

“Sit down,” the president told Jake Turx, a reporter for Orthodox Jewish weekly Ami Magazine, after telling him it was “not a fair question.”Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton on Tuesday joined the growing calls for President Donald Trump to condemn a spate of anti-Semitic hate crimes in recent weeks.

Clinton tweeted that Trump “must speak out” against the “troubling” attacks.

JCC threats, cemetery desecration & online attacks are so troubling & they need to be stopped. Everyone must speak out, starting w/ @POTUS. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 21, 2017

Later Tuesday morning, Trump briefly mentioned the incidents during a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C.

“Anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish communities and our Jewish Community Centers are horrible, and are painful,” Trump said.

At a news conference last week, Trump criticized a Jewish reporter for asking about the increase in threats, and then claimed he was the “least anti-Semitic person that you’ve ever seen in your entire life.”

The president was also asked about the topic during a separate news conference with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He responded by boasting about winning the Electoral College.Watch your wallets. Republicans are pushing a new corporate tax plan that will end up costing most of you a bundle. Here’s what you should know about the so-called “border adjustment tax.”

The U.S. imports about $2.7 trillion worth of goods a year. Many imports are cheap because labor costs are much lower in places like Southeast Asia.

Our current tax code taxes corporations on their profits. So, for example, when Wal-Mart buys t-shirts from Vietnam for $10 and sells them for $13, Wal-Mart is only taxed on that $3 of profit.

But under the new Republican tax plan, Wal-Mart would be taxed on the full price of imported items, so in this case the full $13 sale price of that t-shirt. As a result of this tax, Wall Street analysts expect retail prices in the U.S. to rise as much as 15 percent.

The plan would also cut taxes on companies that export from the United States. This is intended to encourage companies to locate production here in the United States.

The plan would cut taxes on companies that export from the United States. This is intended to encourage companies to locate production here in the United States.

But it wouldn’t reverse the tide of automation that’s rapidly eliminating jobs even from American factories.

The worst thing about it the plan is it’s a hidden upward redistribution.

Its burden will fall mainly on the poor and middle class because they already spend almost all of their incomes, so they’ll feel the greatest pain from higher retail prices.

The benefits will go to companies that export and their shareholders, who will benefit from the tax cuts in the form of higher profits – and higher share prices. Shareholders, who are mostly upper-income people, don’t need this windfall.

Republicans claim that the U.S. dollar would rise in response to higher taxes on imports, effectively wiping out the tax burden. But as a practical matter, no one knows if this will happen.

Bottom line: The tax plan is dressed up as a way to make America more competitive. But underneath it’s just a typical Republican plan that redistributes from the poor and middle class to corporations and the wealthy.WASHINGTON ― The first time Luis Chiliquinga went on strike, he joined fellow fast-food workers and marched into his McDonald’s inside the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum. He wasn’t satisfied with his $8.25-per-hour wage, and he was tired of burning his hands on hot grease. As the strikers chanted, Chiliquinga walked right up to his manager and held up a protest sign.

“I wasn’t scared,” Chiliquinga says of that first walkout, in 2013. If anyone seemed nervous, the 67-year-old says with a smile, it was management: “They were scared.”

Chiliquinga has taken part in more than a dozen strikes and protests since then, all of them pillorying federal contractors for paying low wages and opposing unionization among their workers. The rabble-rousing has led to concrete gains. Chiliquinga now earns $12.77 per hour and gets paid time off. He doesn’t believe he’d have either if not for the pressure fast-food workers like himself brought to bear on employers and politicians.

Yet Chiliquinga and his striking colleagues accomplished much more than that. They helped shape federal policy in a way that affects hundreds of thousands of other workers. Several of President Barack Obama’s executive orders may not have been issued at all if not for the courage of low-wage contract workers in Washington. Chiliquinga should know: He was invited to stand at Obama’s side in the White House when one of them was signed.

Under President Donald Trump, those gains may not be permanent. While on the campaign trail, Trump promised to unwind Obama’s executive orders, and he has already started to make good on that pledge. Chiliquinga wonders if some of the progress he and his co-workers made could be vacated with the stroke of a pen ― even though Trump vowed to bring back good jobs and raise wages for struggling workers like him.

“We fought very hard,” says Chiliquinga, a father of three. “We expect a living wage, not a minimum wage. It’s dignity. That’s why we pursued it.”

Chiliquinga, who immigrated from Ecuador in 1996, lives in a group house with family in suburban Maryland, about 40 miles from the Air and Space Museum. The commute alone costs him more than an hour’s pay each day. In 2013, he joined a new, union-backed worker group called Good Jobs Nation, made up of D.C.-area fast food workers, janitors and cooks, all of them employed on federal properties. They wanted to call attention to the fact that the federal government underwrites a lot of poverty jobs.

If the labor of people like Chiliquinga is funded by taxpayers, they argued, then their employers should be held to a higher standard. They called upon the Obama administration to use the federal government’s contracting power to improve pay and working conditions on federal properties around the country.

Alex Wong via Getty Images Chiliquinga, standing to Obama's left as he signed the $10.10 executive order.

The workers found allies in prominent liberal members of Congress, like Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.). They held rallies, filed complaints against their employers, and appealed directly to the White House.

Soon, the president got the message.

In 2014, Obama announced that he would set a minimum wage of $10.10 for all workers employed under federal contracts, including people in fast-food joints at government buildings. Democrats wanted to set a nationwide minimum wage at the same level, but Republicans would not give that proposal a vote. Through his executive order, Obama made sure at least some workers would be paid a higher wage.

A few months later, the Obama administration issued another executive order, this one creating a new rule punishing contractors with a history of labor law violations. The rule was crafted with input from Chiliquinga’s group. If a firm had a record of ripping off workers or putting them in danger, then the rule would make it harder for them to secure contracts with the government. The idea was to encourage contractors to treat their workers decently if they want to benefit from taxpayer money.

Then Obama signed a third executive order related to federal contracts, this one guaranteeing paid sick days for workers. Democrats sought a nationwide paid leave law, but Republicans blocked that proposal just like the minimum wage. The White House estimated the executive order would bring roughly 300,000 workers up to seven sick days per year.

Taken together, the executive actions represent a stunning success for the workers’ campaign. Powerful labor groups like the Service Employees International Union lobbied the White House for the reforms, but it was people like Chiliquinga walking off the job that created the public pressure for them. Just as the broader Fight for $15 spurred minimum-wage hikes coast to coast, it was the sight of federal contract workers taking to the streets that gave Obama the mandate to take unilateral action.

“It was a consequence of our struggle. If we don’t do strikes, that might never happen,” Chiliquinga explains. “The government needs pressure. They are always under the pressure of the companies. If workers don’t make pressure, then they don’t move.”

We fought very hard We expect a living wage, not a minimum wage. It’s dignity. That’s why we pursued it. Luis Chiliquinga

Already, some of that success has started to unravel since Obama left office. Earlier this month, House Republicans used an arcane procedural maneuver in an effort to undo the new rule barring companies that had committed wage theft from getting new contracts. Chiliquinga and his colleagues showed up at the Capitol to protest the vote, chasing after Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.) in an effort to confront her over gutting the new worker protections.

If the Senate follows suit, the Labor Department will be forbidden from moving forward with Obama’s executive order, known as the Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces rule. (It is already tied up in court, blocked by a temporary injunction.) By using the Congressional Review Act to kill it, Republicans would assure that the same rule cannot be revived in the future.

Trump could reverse the minimum-wage and paid-leave measures, too, by writing his own executive orders vacating them. But doing so may not be worth the political costs. The minimum wage for contractors has become less relevant as more states and the District of Columbia raise their own minimum wages. Meanwhile, Americans overwhelmingly like the idea of hiking the wage floor and requiring employers to provide paid leave. If Trump wanted to abolish Obama’s rules and lower the minimum wage for cont, he would be taking positions out of step with most voters.

Still, Trump has made clear he intends to strip regulations, pare back oversight and make life much easier for employers. Chiliquinga says he tries not to think about what Trump may do to the executive orders he and his co-workers helped make a reality. If they are wiped out, it won’t diminish the sense of accomplishment he feels. And if they stand, it won’t change his belief that Trump will work for the executives in the boardroom rather than cooks in the kitchen.

“His vision of the economy is in his interests, not workers’,” Chiliquinga says. “That’s why we need to increase the pressure. We have to use our whole heart, and our whole mind, because it’s the only way to change our conditions.”North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper (D) announced Tuesday he was dropping his state’s appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court over a 2013 voting bill that a federal appeals court called the most restrictive in the state “since the era of Jim Crow.”

Last year, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit struck down a North Carolina bill that required residents to show photo ID at the polls, shortened early voting and eliminated same-day registration. The court ruled that the law intentionally discriminated against African Americans “with almost surgical precision.” With days left in his administration, former Gov. Pat McCrory (R), whom Cooper defeated last year, appealed the ruling to the Supreme Court.

Just last week, lawyers retained by McCrory filed a brief urging the high court to agree to hear the case, and the justices are set to consider the state’s petition at their private conference on March 3. In the lead-up to last November’s election, the Supreme Court denied an emergency request from North Carolina to allow it to enforce the restrictive voting law.

But on Tuesday, Cooper announced that he and North Carolina Attorney General Josh Stein (D) had notified the court that they’re withdrawing the appeal altogether.

“This morning, the Governor’s General Counsel and Chief Deputy Attorney General jointly sent a letter discharging outside counsel in the case on behalf of the State,” the governor’s office said in a statement. “Also today, the Governor’s Office and the NC Department of Justice formally withdrew the State and Governor’s request for the U.S. Supreme Court to review the Fourth Circuit’s decision.”

“We need to make it easier for people to exercise their right to vote, not harder, and I will not continue to waste time and money appealing this unconstitutional law,” Cooper said. “It’s time for North Carolina to stop fighting for this unfair, unconstitutional law and work instead to improve equal access for voters.”

In a Facebook post, Stein said that the plaintiffs had agreed to waive $12 million in legal fees if the case was dropped.

In an article published in Slate earlier this month, Rick Hasen, an election law expert and professor at the University of California, Irvine, observed that Cooper dropping the case would be notable because other courts were already relying on the 4th Circuit’s opinion in the North Carolina case.

It’s not immediately clear what will happen next in the litigation.

Cooper’s statement notes that while his office and the attorney general are giving up the appeal, “the State Board of Elections, its individual members, and its Executive Director will remain in the case for the time being.” Hasen noted on his blog Tuesday that Republicans control both the state Board of Elections and the state legislature, but he was unsure if either could hire its own lawyers for the case.

Patrick Gannon, a spokesman for the Board of Elections, said the agency had been informed of the governor’s decision on Tuesday and was still seeking additional information. He said that the board would discuss the case at a planned meeting Wednesday.

Now that the Supreme Court is one member short since the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, North Carolina’s move may prevent the justices from delving into an area of law where they’ve been deeply divided in the past.

Republican leaders in the legislature said that the decision by the governor and attorney general to drop the case was illegal.

“Roy Cooper’s and Josh Stein’s desperate and politically-motivated stunt to derail North Carolina’s voter ID law is not only illegal, it also raises serious questions about whether they’ve allowed their own personal and political prejudices and conflicts of interest to cloud their professional judgment. We expect the courts to reject this unethical stunt just as they did when Cooper tried the same trick in the ‘Choose Life’ license tag case,” Phil Berger, the Senate President Pro Tempore, and Tim Moore, the Speaker of the House, said in a joint statement.

In the meantime, the court is expected to rule soon in a pending gerrymandering case where North Carolina stands accused of drawing two congressional districts in a way that dilutes the power of minority voters. And in January, the Supreme Court halted a special election called for the purpose of redrawing 28 legislative districts that a lower court found were illegal.

Cristian Farias contributed reporting.The controversy, like many these days, was ephemeral, but the damage will linger. In less than a day, the organizers of the annual conservative confab CPAC (Conservative Political Action Conference) booked professional provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos to headline the gathering before rescinding the invitation after video emerged of him seemingly condoning pedophilia.

It was a momentary embarrassment for the organization. But for the gay rights activists within the Republican Party, it revived the anger and befuddlement that seems to come each year at CPAC, leaving little sense of relief at the outcome.

Yiannopoulos would have been the most high-profile openly gay speaker in CPAC’s history. But he is anything but the ideal standard-bearer for these activists. He has a history of bigotry toward other minority groups, including Muslims, Jews and even gays, whom he has insisted should bottle up their pride rather than have it accepted or celebrated. That he was embraced by organizers of the yearly event was yet another indication that gay conservatives are still viewed as a sideshow and not a constituency whose issues remain very raw and serious.

“It is an unfortunate realization of a goal for so many,” James Richardson, an openly gay, longtime GOP operative, said before the invitation was rescinded. “For years the LGBT community was blacklisted from CPAC, and now we have an unlikely champion of the movement set to speak. Unlikely, because he is absolutely not a champion. Not at all.”

It is an annual tradition for conservative LGBT groups and CPAC organizers to wage private and not-so-private battles about the composition of the conference. Usually these are fought over the smallest of terrain. Gay groups have struggled to be granted the opportunity for mere sponsorship or the chance to host a booth among the dozen organizations in the halls.

A modicum of progress has come recently but in curious, minor forms. For instance, the head of the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay rights organization within the party, was allowed to appear at CPAC in 2015, but only on a panel on Russia policy. In 2013, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida turned heads when he labeled marriage a states’ rights issue, yet he was only implying that he didn’t favor a constitutional amendment to forbid it. And last year, a debate was held on the place of gay marriage in the libertarian and traditionalist wings of the party, where a consensus didn’t form on same-sex marriage but instead on religious freedoms.

In these recent years, attendance by gay rights activists has dipped as CPAC has been viewed more as a venue for poli-entertainment than a place where an earnest debate about the state and future of conservatism can be had. That Yiannopoulos was invited to speak this year was, for the activists, an illustration of the charade.

“There are a lot of us who took a lot of hits over the years to help the conservative movement to evolve on some cultural issues, and this is less than a victory given the nature of Milo’s act and schtick,” said Jimmy LaSalvia, a gay activist who has left the Republican Party.

Officials at CPAC, including its chairman, Matt Schlapp, did not comment for this article. But, behind the scenes, officials acknowledged that the Yiannopoulos invitation was poorly thought out. One organizer conceded that gay groups had a right to feel hurt that CPAC was bestowing such a symbolic breakthrough on someone philosophically removed from gay activists in the GOP and with so few accomplishments in their movement.

CPAC chair Schlapp tells me there was "universal belief" among organizers re Milo "the right thing to do was to rescind the invitation" — Caitlin Huey-Burns (@CHueyBurnsRCP) February 20, 2017

Robert Traynham, a longtime gay GOP operative, suggested that a figure like Rich Tafel, the founder of the Log Cabin Republicans, would have been far better suited for the role.

“It seems to me that he would have been much more appropriate compared to Milo, who is a flash in the pan,” Traynham said. “Yes, he does have a following. Yes, he is provocative and you can make the argument that some organizers of CPAC thought that might be a good thing. With the benefit of hindsight, it proved to not be.”

As Traynham hinted, Yiannopoulos does, in some regards, reflect the odd moment that the conservative world finds itself in with respect to gay rights. He is, after all, a product of Breitbart News. And long before there was that modicum of progress at CPAC with respect to gay rights issues, it was Andrew Breitbart, the website’s founder, who was demanding it.

A staple at CPACs, Breitbart, who died in 2012, often held court and caused stirs with liberal agitators who walked among the attendees. Behind the scenes, he advocated forcefully for gay attendees and issues.

“I don’t understand the concept that a gay person cannot be a conservative; there are so many different things that conservatism stands for,” he told The Huffington Post at 2012’s CPAC. “I see the issue from the vantage point that I don’t even think the media can contemplate. I see how the issue has been settled by the American people that we do live in an incredibly tolerant nation.”

Yiannopoulos’ rise also has come amid the political ascendance of the alt-right, with President Donald Trump as its most prominent beneficiary or, alternatively, star. And Trump himself has taken a far more open-minded approach to gay rights than prior Republican nominees or presidents. In the age of Trump, it made some sense to have a similarly provocative figure be the one to break boundaries at institutional conservative functions, argued one prominent gay conservative, who asked not to be named so as to not end up associated with another “Milo controversy.” And yet he still wouldn’t have extended the invitation.

“I think it was an in-your-face decision, and I wouldn’t have made it,” he said. “It’s a bridge too far and too fast. If you’re going to have a gay conservative speak at CPAC, make it an intellectual argument. This is entertainment.”

By un-inviting Yiannopoulos, CPAC officials hoped that they could quickly stem the tide of anger that erupted when they first chose to bring him to the gathering. It certainly appears to have sparked a broader reconsideration within the conservative and nonconservative universe, with Yiannopoulos’ position at Breitbart apparently no longer secure and his book deal having been axed. But for the gay conservative crowd that has locked horns with CPAC on a yearly basis, it’s yet another indignity that they won’t quickly forget.As a former intelligence officer, I am a major advocate of the maxim, “facts matter.” As such, I often find myself cringing when listening to President Trump wax philosophically – and creatively – on any number of issues. The most recent example of this are the president’s comments about Sweden, made during a rally before supporters held in Melbourne, Florida this pastSaturday.

“Here’s the bottom line,” the president said. “We’ve got to keep our country safe. You look at what’s happening in Germany. You look at what’s happening last night in Sweden,” Trump said. “Sweden. Who would believe this? Sweden. They took in large numbers. They’re having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what’s happening in Brussels. You look at what’s happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris.”

The president then transitioned into the heart of his message, which dealt with his controversial executive order on immigration. “We’ve allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country, and there was no way to vet those people,” he said. “There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we’re going to keep our country safe.”

The media – in the United States, Sweden and elsewhere – immediately criticized the president’s words, ascribing meaning and intent in an effort to undermine the message and the man, building on a foundation of negative press regarding Trump’s stalled immigration order banning persons from seven Muslim countries from entering the United States for ninety days while a plan for implementing the president’s vision for “extreme vetting” could be formulated and implemented.

“The comments appeared to refer to recent terror attacks in Germany and elsewhere, but no such attack has occurred in Sweden,” wrote Eric Bradner, of CNN. “Trump’s remark is the latest misplaced reference to a terrorist attack or incident by those in his White House. Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway inaccurately referred to a ‘Bowling Green massacre’ that never took place, and White House press secretary Sean Spicer referred to an attack in Atlanta, later clarifying that he meant to refer to Orlando.”

Steve Benen, of MSNBC, had a similar take on Trump’s Swedish reference. “Kellyanne Conway recently made repeated references to a ‘massacre’ at Bowling Green that never actually happened. Sean Spicer similarly pointed several times to a terrorist attack in Atlanta that didn’t occur. So perhaps it was inevitable that Donald Trump, fresh off his bizarre claims about U.S. murder rates that exist only in his imagination, would point to a Swedish incident with no basis in reality.”

I actually believe Donald Trump did America, and the world, a favor in bringing up the issue of Swedish immigration.

The British press was no less damning in its reporting. “Donald Trump appeared to invent an attack on Sweden during a rally in Florida,” wrote The Telegraph, while the Guardian reported that, “Donald Trump appeared to invent a terrorist attack in Sweden during a campaign-style rally in Florida on Saturday.”

Even the Swedes jumped on the bandwagon, with Swedish Foreign Minister Margot Wallstrom posting on Twitter an excerpt from Trump’s speech, noting that democracy and diplomacy “require us to respect science, facts and the media.” Former Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt likewise tweeted, “Sweden? Terror attack? What has he been smoking? Questions abound.”

The problem with the bulk of the reporting on Trump’s comments was that it was, simply put, wrong. Even the New York Times – no friend of Donald Trump – was compelled to admit that, “Mr. Trump did not state, per se, that a terrorist attack had taken place in Sweden. But the context of his remarks – he mentioned Sweden right after he chastised Germany, a destination for refugees and asylum seekers fleeing war and deprivation – suggested that he thought it might have.”

If there was any doubt as to what President Trump was actually thinking (vice what reporters thought he was thinking), it was quickly put to rest by the president himself, who tweeted Sunday that, “My statement as to what’s happening in Sweden was in reference to a story that was broadcast on @FoxNews concerning immigrants & Sweden.” He followed that tweet with another on Monday, noting that, “Give the public a break - The FAKE NEWS media is trying to say that large scale immigration in Sweden is working out just beautifully. NOT!”

The president, it seems, was watching an episode of Tucker Carlson’s evening news program, where Mr. Carlson interviewed a controversial right-wing Jewish documentary filmmaker, Ami Horowitz, who had finished a project on Sweden’s immigration policy. Mr. Horowitz is a noted Islamophobe whose film seeks to label Sweden as a nation whose pro-immigration policies coddle Islamic terrorism. His appearance on Tucker Carlson’s show was part and parcel of a trend of reporting by Fox News sympathetic to President Trump and his policies, and as such it should be a surprise to no one that Mr. Trump had been tuned in and watching as Carlson interviewed Horowitz.

That President Trump gets some of his information from watching prime time news shows should neither shock nor surprise Americans who are similarly empowered by such information sources; after all, what is good for the goose should be good for the gander. That the president chooses to publicly comment on this information without first vetting it – or, in the president’s own parlance, “extreme vetting” it – with the resources uniquely available to him, such as the State Department, the National Security Council, etc., is, at the very least, disturbing.

The president, whether he realizes it or not, speaks on behalf of an entire country, and not just that segment of society that supports him and his policies. Even if Mr. Trump is personally sympathetic to the selective and self-serving reporting of Mr. Horowitz and Fox News, he should be assiduous in making sure that, as president, his words leave little open to suggestion by being as precise in fact and context as possible. The fact, however, that President Trump is, and was, not doing so should not come as a surprise to either the public or the media; he consistently campaigned in this fashion during his successful run for the White House, and his actions and words, in transition and during the first three weeks in office, have demonstrated little if any trend away from sustaining that behavior.

That President Trump and the media are currently engaged in a much publicized feud over their respective veracity is well known to all; neither side does itself any service by engaging in actions that only reinforces the talking points of the other side. President Trump should be far more precise and accurate in his facts and commentary, period. The media should likewise limit its reporting to those facts that the president has publicly committed to; Mr. Trump provides more than enough ammunition for fact-based reporters to stay gainfully employed without sinking to the artifice of discerning (i.e., manufacturing) “suggestion” and “intent” behind what the president says. To behave otherwise is to demean the status and value of the Fourth Estate to the American people.

An enemy of the truth is, by extension, an enemy of the American people. Both the president and the media should heed that simple fact, since their future credibility hangs on their perceived adherence to the same. A viable democracy such as the United States requires fact-based debate, discussion and dialogue in order to sustain and further societal growth and health – a static society is a dying society. It is in America’s interest to keep evolving as a nation, seeking new solutions to old problems, and to do so in a manner which encourages the frank and open participation by all citizens, whether others agree with them or not.

In this light, I actually believe Donald Trump did America, and the world, a favor in bringing up the issue of Swedish immigration. The inability of the American (and international) media to help facilitate a responsible debate on the subject by reporting on perceived “suggestion” or “intent” behind the president’s words, vice the actual words themselves, however, has created a situation where the American people can’t see the forest for the trees.

It’s not that I agree with the president’s immigration policy – I don’t. My wife and her family are immigrants (she is a naturalized citizen, her father a green card-carrying permanent resident), and our ability to interact with our extended family abroad is dependent on the freedom of movement between the United States and her native Republic of Georgia. The Georgian Republic is, today, an ally of the United States, its population deeply Christian in religious orientation and as such largely immune to the limitations on immigration proposed by the president.

While I do not share Ami Horowitz’s sweeping denunciation of Sweden’s experience with Muslim immigrants, I do have an opinion on the issue based upon first-hand experience.

It isn’t the impact of the president’s proposed policy on a personal level that prompts my opposition, but rather the fact that families like my own will be adversely impacted simply because of geography or religion. America has the ability and resources to deal with the issue of immigration with the precision of a surgeon, excising those who are shown to represent a threat to American security while allowing entry to those who don’t; in contrast, Trump’s proposed policy represents a hammer-like approach. We can, and should, do better.

The best solutions, however, come only once a problem has been properly defined, and here the problem revolves around both the practical methodologies involved in any vetting of immigrants, extreme or otherwise, and the public perception of the impact upon society that any surge of immigration might have. While I do not share Ami Horowitz’s sweeping denunciation of Sweden’s experience with Muslim immigrants, I do have an opinion on the issue based upon first-hand experience. In late 2007 I had the opportunity to attend a week-long advanced firefighting academy in Sweden, followed by a 72-hour operational “ride along” with Swedish firefighters in the city of Malmo, Sweden’s 3rd largest city with a population of 300,00 – 20 percent of whom are Muslim immigrants.

I spent a decade in the fire service, and had the opportunity to interact with firefighters from across the United States and around the world. I’ve always viewed the fire service as the true barometer of a society; politicians can sweep inconvenient facts under the rug, while a population can coast through life, deaf, dumb and blind about the real problems that exist out of sight, out of mind. Not so the firefighter (or, for that case, the police officer and emergency medical services.)

These first responders know the truth (sometimes ugly) about the state of affairs in a given community. Is there a heroin problem? Ask the firefighter – he or she will be able to draw a map showing precisely where they respond to calls of that nature. Firefighters know the parts of town that have been hit by unemployment, where medical insurance is non-existent, or where immigrant communities (both legal and otherwise) reside.

If you spend some time in a firehouse, as I have, you get a very accurate readout of the pulse of the society they serve. I was a Bernie Sanders supporter during the last election, but by September 2016 I was telling my friends that Donald Trump was going to win, not because I wanted him to, but because that was the feeling I was getting from the firehouses in the parts of America largely ignored by mainstream politicians – the rust belt of the northeast and Midwest America where support for Trump was directly related to the ills of society firefighters knew existed, and which were not being adequately addressed by the political powers that be.

I never met a society more open-minded and tolerant of outsiders than the Swedes. In Malmo, I was driven around the city by a succession of fire chiefs who proudly displayed the work being done by their municipality to receive and care for the large immigrant policy – primarily Muslim – that called the city home. The front-line firefighters that I met and worked with shared the pride in their city, and Sweden’s policy of openness and inclusiveness, shown by their command, but balanced it with a healthy dose of skepticism born of first-hand experience with the ugly side of the immigrant experience.

I personally witnessed the reality of entire neighborhoods in the city where firefighters and police were not welcomed with open arms. While not absolute “no go” zones (the Malmo firefighters, after all, responded to calls in these areas), these neighborhoods were “slow go” zones, meaning firefighters entered with caution. Arson incidents in these immigrant neighborhoods were rampant – I responded to two during my stay, one of which was a school targeted for simply being secular. The firefighters I rode with told of being pelted with rocks while responding to other emergency calls just a week before I arrived, and many times prior. The firefighters spoke of the need for increased outreach to the immigrant community, including trying to recruit immigrants into the emergency response force, but noted that these efforts were stymied by the close-knit nature of many immigrant neighborhoods which made meaningful integration into Swedish society very difficult.

My experience with the firefighters of Malmo in no way validates the reporting of Ami Horowitz, Fox News or any media outlet seeking to paint Sweden as a seething cauldron of Islamic fundamentalism operating in the heart of Europe. What it does do, however, is underscore the reality that when a society undertakes to open its doors to large-scale immigration, there exists the potential for the kind of disruptive, sometimes violent experiences that occurred – and continue to occur – in Malmo – and throughout Sweden as a whole. Rather than being dismissive of the Swedish experience, however, America would do well to reach out to the Swedes for their lessons learned, so that America can proactively address the problems and solutions already identified and acted on by the Swedes.A platform of hatred. A plethora of racist, misogynistic and transphobic remarks. But through it all, many stood by far-right troll Milo Yiannopoulos, often defending his right to free speech.

Over the weekend, however, the Breitbart editor finally crossed what may have seemed a non-existent line, sending the American Conservative Union, publishing house Simon & Schuster and others who once supported him running.

The breaking point: defending pedophilia.

Video surfaced Sunday in which Yiannopoulos appears to condone sexual relationships between adults and 13-year-old boys, saying, “We get hung up on this kind of child abuse stuff.”

Despite a “note for idiots” on Facebook in which Yiannopoulos attempted to clarify what he said, and a subsequent post in which he took some responsibility for his comments, the fallout has been swift.

He was disinvited Monday from ACU’s annual Conservative Political Action Conference, where he was scheduled to speak along with Vice President Mike Pence, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and President Donald Trump’s strategist Steve Bannon. The group’s president, Matt Schlapp, said Yiannopoulos’s response on Facebook was “insufficient.”

Simon & Schuster announced later Monday that it had decided to cancel the publication of Yiannopoulos’ upcoming book, Dangerous.

Among his other deserters was “alt-right” Twitter personality “Baked Alaska.”

I am Milo's former manager.
