Nostalgia was big inside the convention hall. Artifacts from Republican administrations — especially Ronald Reagan’s — served as reminders of the party’s past. Fast forward to the present, with “Make America Great Again” hats.

There was also Ken Bone, whose red sweater helped rocket him to Internet-meme stardom after he asked a question at one of the presidential debates.Here are a few of Mr. Bannon’s phrases from his comments and what they convey.

‘Economic Nationalism’

“If you look at the lines of work, I would break it up into three verticals or three buckets. The first is kind of national security and sovereignty. ... The second line of work is what I refer to as economic nationalism.”


Economic nationalism is formally defined as encompassing domestic control of the economy, protectionist policies such as tariffs and opposition to trade and immigration.

But Mr. Kreiss said that, after months of studying Breitbart, he concluded that it was seen “less as a proscribed set of policies” than as a way to declare opposition to the long-held bipartisan consensus that favors trade and immigration.

The Breitbart site often describes an all-encompassing clash between “nationalists” and “globalists.”

In this worldview, American interests are assumed to be at odds with those of the rest of the world, and immigration is seen as undercutting the national identity — with “globalists” the enemy within.

‘Deconstruction of the Administrative State’

“The third, broadly, line of work is deconstruction of the administrative state. ... If you look at these cabinet appointees, they were selected for a reason and that is the deconstruction. The way the progressive left runs, is if they can’t get it passed, they’re just going to put in some sort of regulation in an agency. That’s all going to be deconstructed and I think that that’s why this regulatory thing is so important.”

Republicans have long warned against overregulation. Mr. Bannon portrays the problem as flowing from something deeper: a shadowy “administrative state” engineered by the left to advance its agenda.

The state, in this view, is not an instrument of the American electorate, nor even a hurdle to be overcome as mainline conservatives often see it, but rather an adversary innately hostile to the people.

This is a core argument of populist leaders, who typically rise by promising to oppose institutions, which are blamed for society’s problems. But in practice, they often consolidate power away from those institutions for themselves.


‘Our Sovereignty’

“That got us out of a trade deal and let our sovereignty come back to ourselves.”

Mr. Bannon often cites sovereignty to argue that trade deals or other forms of cooperation will necessarily suborn American interests.

This is different from isolationism, which argues that the United States should withdraw from the world. Rather, it is nationalism, which demands engagement but on ruthlessly competitive terms.

Subscribe to the Interpreter Newsletter Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news stories of the week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

This flows from an idea that the world’s natural state is of clashing civilizations, an idea popularized by the scholar Samuel P. Huntington.

“Rule of law is going to exist when you talk about our sovereignty and you talk about immigration.”

When Mr. Bannon cites sovereignty — in this case, to increase deportations — he conveys a need to assert control against a vaguely defined enemy.

Breitbart and like-minded websites often describe sovereignty as rooted in the nationalist premise that any nation-state is built around a core cultural identity that it must protect.

The word “sovereignty,” Mr. Kreiss said, asserts “a defense of protecting an idea of what America is and should be.” He said the “symbolic core of the nation” is being defined as white and Christian and seen itself as “under threat by cosmopolitanism and globalism.”

‘Corporatist, Globalist Media’

“They’re corporatist, globalist media that are adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has.”


In Mr. Bannon’s populist worldview, the United States’ traditional embrace of globalism is so clearly against American interests that it could only have been orchestrated by powerful elites.

Those elites include, in his telling, the news media — “globalist” for their embrace of trade and immigration, and “corporatist” for serving the business interests that are presumed to benefit at Americans’ expense.

Mr. Bannon has called the news media the “opposition party,” characterizing it as innately hostile to the Trump administration and therefore deserving of neither trust nor transparency.

Here, Mr. Bannon also portrays it as representing elites, and therefore in natural opposition to populist sites like Breitbart, which he has characterized as representing the people. This is reflected in President Trump’s assertions that the news media is the “enemy of the American people.”

‘The Center Core of What We Believe’

“The center core of what we believe, that we’re a nation with an economy. Not an economy just in some global marketplace with open borders, but we are a nation with a culture and a reason for being.”

Mr. Bannon is articulating a central idea of nationalists the world over: that the nation-state is the fundamental building block of humanity, with each nation defined by a fixed cultural identity.

In this view, countries are in a natural state of permanent competition. Any international integration suborns the identity that is a nation’s most important asset.

Immigration is also seen as threatening that identity. This helps explain why Mr. Bannon portrays “open borders” as a danger to America’s “culture” and “reason for being.”

Of course, every nation’s identity and demographics change over time. But opposing those changes, Mr. Kreiss said, has proved powerful at mobilizing a community.


“It’s a very defined cultural and ideological movement that’s giving voice to this and creating a framework for this,” he said. “It’s powerful for a lot of people.”Wearing his Army uniform, General McMaster spoke to a group that has been rattled and deeply demoralized after weeks of upheaval, following a haphazard transition from the Obama administration and amid the questions about links to Russia, which swiftly engulfed Mr. Flynn.


General McMaster, several officials said, has been vocal about his views on dealing with Islamic militancy, including with Mr. Trump, who on Monday described him as “a man of tremendous talent, tremendous experience.” General McMaster got the job after Mr. Trump’s first choice, Robert S. Harward, a retired Navy vice admiral, turned it down.

Within a day of his appointment on Monday, General McMaster was popping into offices to introduce himself to the council’s professional staff members. The staff members, many of them holdovers from the Obama administration, felt viewed with suspicion by Mr. Trump’s team and shut out of the policy-making process, according to current and former officials.

In his language, General McMaster is closer to the positions of former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush. Both took pains to separate acts of terrorism from Islamic teaching, in part because they argued that the United States needed the help of Muslim allies to hunt down terrorists.

“This is very much a repudiation of his new boss’s lexicon and worldview,” said William McCants, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of “The ISIS Apocalypse.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“McMaster, like Obama, is someone who was in positions of leadership and thought the United States should not play into the jihadist propaganda that this is a religious war,” Mr. McCants said.

“There is a deep hunger for McMaster’s view in the interagency,” he added, referring to the process by which the State Department, Pentagon and other agencies funnel recommendations through the National Security Council. “The fact that he has made himself the champion of this view makes people realize they have an advocate to express dissenting opinions.”

But Mr. McCants and others cautioned that General McMaster’s views would not necessarily be the final word in a White House where Mr. Trump and several of his top advisers view Islam in deeply xenophobic terms. Some aides, including the president’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, have warned of a looming existential clash between Islam and the Judeo-Christian world.

Mr. Bannon and Stephen Miller, another senior adviser with anti-Islamic views, have close ties to Mr. Trump and walk-in privileges in the Oval Office. General McMaster, 54, has neither.


Known for challenging his superiors, General McMaster was nearly passed over for the rank of brigadier general in 2007, until Gen. David H. Petraeus, who used his counterinsurgency strategy in Iraq, and Robert M. Gates, then the defense secretary, rallied support for him.

The schisms within the administration could be aired publicly if the Senate Armed Services Committee exercises a right to hold a confirmation hearing for General McMaster. Although the post of national security adviser does not require Senate confirmation, senators must approve his retention of his three-star rank in a new position.

Senator John McCain, the committee’s chairman and a strong supporter of General McMaster, has not said whether he wants to hold a hearing.

To outside observers, the administration’s approach to the world appears increasingly schizophrenic. Mr. Pence, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and other senior cabinet officers have reaffirmed American support for alliances with NATO and in East Asia. Mr. Bannon and other White House officials continue to suggest there will be radical shifts in American policy. These mixed messages extend beyond the Muslim world. This week, Mr. Pence traveled to Brussels to declare — on Mr. Trump’s behalf, he said — “the strong commitment of the United States to the continued cooperation and partnership with the European Union.”

But on Thursday, the German ambassador to the United States, Peter Wittig, said his government remains concerned that the White House views the European Union as an ailing, inefficient economic club, rather than a political project that has kept Europe at peace.

Before Mr. Pence’s trip, according to Reuters, Mr. Wittig met Mr. Bannon, who told him the White House viewed the European Union as a “flawed construct” and preferred to negotiate with Germany and other European countries one-on-one. Mr. Wittig declined to discuss the meeting, while Mr. Bannon did not respond to a request for comment.

But Mr. Wittig said to reporters, “We will certainly fight for a coherent and resilient European Union.”“Disruption is a good thing,” said Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union, which hosts CPAC. Still, he acknowledged, “on some days they do it better than others.”

There is another lens through which to see the disorder that has characterized this White House, Mr. Trump and his supporters say. And that is to understand that the president’s enemies — especially in the news media — want to distort his actions, exaggerate his mistakes and not discuss issues like safety and unemployment that are on the minds of his supporters.

Gov. Matt Bevin, Republican of Kentucky, said he was appalled by the “unbelievable incessant focus on the most mindless things,” with regard to how the president is portrayed in the news media. “Let’s talk about crime rates. Let’s talk about economic viability. Let’s talk about joblessness,” Mr. Bevin added. “Let’s focus on things that matter and stop being so tabloid-like and titillated by idiocy.”

Ms. Conway said the stories of disarray in the White House, including recent accounts that she has been sidelined lately, were nothing more than tiresome palace intrigue. And without naming names, she said the attacks directed at her were really desperate attacks against the president by political enemies still sore about the election.


“To try to remove me from the equation would remove one of his voices and one of his trusted aides. And that would be hurtful to him,” she said. “They didn’t see this coming. They weren’t prepared for this result — even though they all ran around and said: ‘We’re a divided country! We’re a divided country!’”

It was not as if the support for Mr. Trump, who will speak to the conference Friday morning, is not enthusiastic.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I always said he’s not a stupid man. And if he has the right people around him he’s going to do the right thing,” said Daniel Cirucci of Cherry Hill, N.J., who was standing in line on Thursday evening to listen to Vice President Mike Pence, a conservative he said he deeply admired. “I think he realizes the enormity of the job,” Mr. Cirucci added. “Now does that mean Trump is going to stop being Trump? No.”

These should be good times for conservatives — and much of the time they are. They control not just the White House but both houses of Congress and appear on the verge of regaining a majority on the Supreme Court. They have not dominated so many state governments in close to a century.

But part of the subtext of CPAC this year has been how conservative leaders are trying to smooth out the rougher edges of their movement, not all of which involve Mr. Trump.

Because of the association that a fringe element of Trump supporters has with white nationalists, the CPAC organizers held a panel discussion on Thursday to signal their strong disapproval. Its title: The Alt-Right Ain’t Right at All.

Yet after the panel was over, the white nationalist leader Richard Spencer stood in the hall just off the main stage and declared himself a conservative. “I’m a conservative in a deep sense, in a sense that I care about people and defending a culture.”

And the organizers had to cancel a planned speech by Milo Yiannopoulos, the former Breitbart editor and Trump supporter who has a history of insulting Jews, Muslims, African-Americans and other minorities, after a tape surfaced in which he condoned sex with boys as young as 13.


The projections of placidity inside CPAC tried to mask how fractious the movement remains. Yet optimists were not hard to find.


Mr. Pence said the Trump victory has given conservatives “the most important time in the history of our movement.”

“My friends, this is our time,” he told the conference Thursday night. “This is the time to prove again that our answers are the right answers for America.”

In his brief remarks, Mr. Bannon ended on a conciliatory note. He insisted that conservatives all had more in common than most people realized.

“We have wide and sometimes divergent opinions,” he said. But the core of what conservatives believe is “that we’re a nation with an economy, not an economy just in some global marketplace with open borders — that we’re a nation with a culture and a reason for being.

“And I think that’s what unites us,” he added. “And I think that’s what’s going to unite this movement going forward.

Eni F. H. Faleomavaega, American Samoa’s longest-serving nonvoting delegate to the House of Representatives, died on Wednesday at his home in Provo, Utah. He was 73.

His death was confirmed by his sister-in-law, Therese Hunkin. She did not specify the cause.

Mr. Faleomavaega, a Democrat, became a congressional delegate in 1989 for American Samoa, a United States territory in the South Pacific, and held the position for 13 consecutive terms, until 2014.

His position allowed him to vote in a committee, but not on the House floor. He was a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Committee on Natural Resources.

In 1996, Mr. Faleomavaega participated in a boycott of an address before a joint session of Congress by President Jacques Chirac of France. Days before Mr. Chirac’s speech, France conducted a series of nuclear tests at the Moruroa and Fangataufa atolls in the South Pacific, despite worldwide protests.

Mr. Faleomavaega’s wife, Hinanui Hunkin, said, “I am so grateful for the trust that the people of American Samoa, for so many years, placed in him as their servant.” She survives him, as do his five children and 10 grandchildren.

Born Eni Hunkin in Vailoatai Village, Mr. Faleomavaega began his political career in 1973 as an administrative assistant to A. U. Fuimaono, a paramount chief and American Samoa’s first elected representative to Washington. He was staff counsel to the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs from 1975 to 1981 before returning to American Samoa as its deputy attorney general. In 1985, he was elected lieutenant governor.WASHINGTON — The Justice Department said Thursday that it would continue to use private, for-profit prisons to house thousands of federal inmates, scrapping an Obama administration plan to phase them out because of problems.

It was the second time in two days that the Trump administration reversed an Obama-era policy. On Wednesday, it rescinded a directive that gave anti-discrimination protection to transgender students and allowed them to use the bathroom of their choice.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In a memo released on Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions directed federal prison officials to keep using the private prisons. He also withdrew a policy set out last August by Sally Q. Yates, then the deputy attorney general, who had ordered prison officials to phase out the use of the private facilities.

Ms. Yates’s order had followed a report from the Justice Department inspector general about safety and security concerns with the operations at private prisons, along with other issues. The private prisons “compare poorly to our own bureau facilities” in a number of areas and do not save much money, Ms. Yates wrote as she ordered them phased out.

Mr. Sessions, in withdrawing her order, said the Yates directive had “changed longstanding policy and practice” and hurt the prison system’s ability “to meet the future needs” for housing.

President Trump fired Ms. Yates as acting attorney general last month over an unrelated matter, when she refused to defend the ban he had ordered on travelers from seven largely Muslim countries. The courts have blocked the travel ban, and the administration is rewriting it.“Republicans are going to come back to Washington next week and say what they’ve heard on the ground, at hospitals, at restaurants, at events where people have been concerned about where they go from here,” he said. “How much that shapes things over the next months remains to be seen.”

Also, recent polls show increasing enthusiasm for the health law as Americans see its repeal on the horizon; a Pew Research Center poll of more than 1,500 adults, released on Thursday, found that 54 percent approve of the Affordable Care Act, while 43 percent disapprove. As recently as December, those numbers were evenly split, with 48 percent approving and 47 percent against.

For Republicans in swing districts in California, New Jersey, New York and other states, the combination is a wicked brew: Those members need to build a winning coalition of base voters who hate the health care law and independents and crossover voters who have recently cottoned to it.

While the 218 votes needed in the House to get the ball rolling remain likely, it is no longer the slam dunk that Republicans had with previous bills to repeal the law, when lawmakers knew their efforts would die in the Senate or on Mr. Obama’s desk.

Some Republicans are trying to keep a low profile back home, like Representatives Darrell Issa of California, Martha McSally of Arizona and Will Hurd of Texas, to avoid the hot seat on health care.

Others, like Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, are smoothing their terms of engagement, increasingly referring more to “repairing” the law than repealing it.

“When you talk about ‘repeal,’ you have just used a word that is very polarizing,” said Representative Tom MacArthur, Republican of New Jersey, who meets weekly with moderate Republicans and Democrats of equal number. “When you go to Democrats and say, ‘Help us repeal,’ that puts them in a box. If you say, ‘Would you help us repair something?’ people start listening in a whole other way.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Others are simply taking credit for the law’s popular provisions, like the one that prohibits insurers from denying coverage for pre-existing conditions. Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, applauded some of them in a town hall this week and claimed they were added to the law thanks to her party — a claim that is simply not true.


Representative Scott Taylor, Republican of Virginia, when asked about a House Republican health care plan that would not provide maternity coverage, said he would push for such coverage to be included in any replacement plan, one of many examples where Republicans are likely to divide on policy and provisions. “There’s discussion,” Mr. Taylor said of the plan promoted by the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan. “It’s not set in stone yet.”

Republicans have been worrying about this long before constituents and protesters began jamming their town hall meetings. Shortly after the election, during a Republican retreat in Pennsylvania, many members privately complained about using the repeal as an avenue to defund Planned Parenthood or repealing without a clear replacement plan, according to a recording of the meeting provided anonymously to The New York Times, The Washington Post and other newspapers.

On Tuesday night, Mr. MacArthur — one of only nine Republicans to vote against the initial bill to begin the repeal process last month — met with protesters who have been standing outside his office, largely to discuss health care.

After the meeting, Mr. MacArthur found himself outside a basement room where a group of local Democrats had gathered, and he wandered in to chat, he said.

“We had a really good impromptu discussion,” Mr. MacArthur said. “There are very sincere people in my district who are deeply concerned about where the country is headed and doing what they should do, which is to go to their closest federal representative.”

“I think first you do the right thing for the country,” he added, “and then you think about the political ramifications, and in this case, doing the right thing would be less polarizing.”“Disruption is a good thing,” said Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union, which hosts CPAC. Still, he acknowledged, “on some days they do it better than others.”

There is another lens through which to see the disorder that has characterized this White House, Mr. Trump and his supporters say. And that is to understand that the president’s enemies — especially in the news media — want to distort his actions, exaggerate his mistakes and not discuss issues like safety and unemployment that are on the minds of his supporters.

Gov. Matt Bevin, Republican of Kentucky, said he was appalled by the “unbelievable incessant focus on the most mindless things,” with regard to how the president is portrayed in the news media. “Let’s talk about crime rates. Let’s talk about economic viability. Let’s talk about joblessness,” Mr. Bevin added. “Let’s focus on things that matter and stop being so tabloid-like and titillated by idiocy.”

Ms. Conway said the stories of disarray in the White House, including recent accounts that she has been sidelined lately, were nothing more than tiresome palace intrigue. And without naming names, she said the attacks directed at her were really desperate attacks against the president by political enemies still sore about the election.


“To try to remove me from the equation would remove one of his voices and one of his trusted aides. And that would be hurtful to him,” she said. “They didn’t see this coming. They weren’t prepared for this result — even though they all ran around and said: ‘We’re a divided country! We’re a divided country!’”

It was not as if the support for Mr. Trump, who will speak to the conference Friday morning, is not enthusiastic.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I always said he’s not a stupid man. And if he has the right people around him he’s going to do the right thing,” said Daniel Cirucci of Cherry Hill, N.J., who was standing in line on Thursday evening to listen to Vice President Mike Pence, a conservative he said he deeply admired. “I think he realizes the enormity of the job,” Mr. Cirucci added. “Now does that mean Trump is going to stop being Trump? No.”

These should be good times for conservatives — and much of the time they are. They control not just the White House but both houses of Congress and appear on the verge of regaining a majority on the Supreme Court. They have not dominated so many state governments in close to a century.

But part of the subtext of CPAC this year has been how conservative leaders are trying to smooth out the rougher edges of their movement, not all of which involve Mr. Trump.

Because of the association that a fringe element of Trump supporters has with white nationalists, the CPAC organizers held a panel discussion on Thursday to signal their strong disapproval. Its title: The Alt-Right Ain’t Right at All.

Yet after the panel was over, the white nationalist leader Richard Spencer stood in the hall just off the main stage and declared himself a conservative. “I’m a conservative in a deep sense, in a sense that I care about people and defending a culture.”

And the organizers had to cancel a planned speech by Milo Yiannopoulos, the former Breitbart editor and Trump supporter who has a history of insulting Jews, Muslims, African-Americans and other minorities, after a tape surfaced in which he condoned sex with boys as young as 13.


The projections of placidity inside CPAC tried to mask how fractious the movement remains. Yet optimists were not hard to find.


Mr. Pence said the Trump victory has given conservatives “the most important time in the history of our movement.”

“My friends, this is our time,” he told the conference Thursday night. “This is the time to prove again that our answers are the right answers for America.”

In his brief remarks, Mr. Bannon ended on a conciliatory note. He insisted that conservatives all had more in common than most people realized.

“We have wide and sometimes divergent opinions,” he said. But the core of what conservatives believe is “that we’re a nation with an economy, not an economy just in some global marketplace with open borders — that we’re a nation with a culture and a reason for being.

“And I think that’s what unites us,” he added. “And I think that’s what’s going to unite this movement going forward.

Eni F. H. Faleomavaega, American Samoa’s longest-serving nonvoting delegate to the House of Representatives, died on Wednesday at his home in Provo, Utah. He was 73.

His death was confirmed by his sister-in-law, Therese Hunkin. She did not specify the cause.

Mr. Faleomavaega, a Democrat, became a congressional delegate in 1989 for American Samoa, a United States territory in the South Pacific, and held the position for 13 consecutive terms, until 2014.

His position allowed him to vote in a committee, but not on the House floor. He was a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Committee on Natural Resources.

In 1996, Mr. Faleomavaega participated in a boycott of an address before a joint session of Congress by President Jacques Chirac of France. Days before Mr. Chirac’s speech, France conducted a series of nuclear tests at the Moruroa and Fangataufa atolls in the South Pacific, despite worldwide protests.

Mr. Faleomavaega’s wife, Hinanui Hunkin, said, “I am so grateful for the trust that the people of American Samoa, for so many years, placed in him as their servant.” She survives him, as do his five children and 10 grandchildren.

Born Eni Hunkin in Vailoatai Village, Mr. Faleomavaega began his political career in 1973 as an administrative assistant to A. U. Fuimaono, a paramount chief and American Samoa’s first elected representative to Washington. He was staff counsel to the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs from 1975 to 1981 before returning to American Samoa as its deputy attorney general. In 1985, he was elected lieutenant governor.WASHINGTON — The Justice Department said Thursday that it would continue to use private, for-profit prisons to house thousands of federal inmates, scrapping an Obama administration plan to phase them out because of problems.

It was the second time in two days that the Trump administration reversed an Obama-era policy. On Wednesday, it rescinded a directive that gave anti-discrimination protection to transgender students and allowed them to use the bathroom of their choice.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In a memo released on Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions directed federal prison officials to keep using the private prisons. He also withdrew a policy set out last August by Sally Q. Yates, then the deputy attorney general, who had ordered prison officials to phase out the use of the private facilities.

Ms. Yates’s order had followed a report from the Justice Department inspector general about safety and security concerns with the operations at private prisons, along with other issues. The private prisons “compare poorly to our own bureau facilities” in a number of areas and do not save much money, Ms. Yates wrote as she ordered them phased out.

Mr. Sessions, in withdrawing her order, said the Yates directive had “changed longstanding policy and practice” and hurt the prison system’s ability “to meet the future needs” for housing.

President Trump fired Ms. Yates as acting attorney general last month over an unrelated matter, when she refused to defend the ban he had ordered on travelers from seven largely Muslim countries. The courts have blocked the travel ban, and the administration is rewriting it.Ms. DeVos, who declined to be interviewed for this article, arrived in Washington with no experience inside government and very little history with the president, and she took over a department whose upper ranks are mostly vacant. In the argument over transgender bathroom access, that put her at a disadvantage against Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former senator with decades of Washington experience and connections who has long had Mr. Trump’s ear.


But critics and admirers alike say they expect her to learn the ropes, build ties and get her way.

“There is a real tendency to underestimate her,” said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, usually a stalwart supporter of Democrats. “She comes across as personable, plain-spoken, but she is dangerous.”

Ms. DeVos, 59, grew up in Holland, Mich., in the western part of the state. She worked at times at the auto parts company her father, Edgar Prince, a major backer of Christian conservative causes, founded and built into a billion-dollar business. Her brother, Erik D. Prince, founded and was chief executive of the private security firm Blackwater, a controversial contractor for American personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan. Her husband, Dick DeVos, comes from an even wealthier family — his father was a founder of Amway, the multilevel marketing company — and he ran unsuccessfully for governor of Michigan in 2006.

Opponents have noted Ms. DeVos’s lack of connections to public schools and colleges — she and her husband had private educations, as did their children — or to the problems average families have in paying for education.

For three decades, Ms. DeVos fought to steer tax dollars away from traditional public schools to charter schools, which rely on public money but are operated by private groups, outside public school structures. She also sought public funds for vouchers to pay for tuition at private schools, including religious schools. Opponents call charter schools a conservative plan to undermine public education by starving it of resources, while supporters argue that they give poor families choices and create competition that pressures traditional schools to improve.

But Ms. DeVos has taken the cause further than many charter school advocates. She has supported schools run by for-profit companies and opposed performance standards for them. She has also argued that the free market — parents’ deciding whether to send their children to charter schools — should decide their fate.

Largely because of her efforts, Detroit has the nation’s largest concentration of charter schools. Many of them are low-performing, and the supply exceeds the demand in some places, within a system that has little oversight and has been derided as chaotic. At the same time, Detroit’s public schools, among the worst in the nation, have continued to deteriorate.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Last year, Detroit officials and a bipartisan group of state lawmakers backed legislation to create mechanisms for permitting new charter schools and closing failing ones. But a group Ms. DeVos created, the Great Lakes Education Project, fought against the bill and won. Ms. DeVos said the Detroit public school system should simply be shut down.

“She fought with everything she had to stop that from going into law, because she didn’t want the public schools to succeed,” Ms. Weingarten said. “She’s completely ideologically focused.”

In her confirmation hearings, Ms. DeVos noted that the vast majority of American students go to public schools, and said nothing would change that. But after taking over the Education Department, she reinforced fears that she is hostile to public education, saying that at a Washington public school she had visited, teachers were in “more of a receive mode” rather than taking initiative, “waiting to be told what they have to do.”


Greg McNeilly, a Republican political operative in Michigan who has worked extensively with Ms. DeVos, said she understood what too many Americans did not: that even public schools in the United States that are considered good do not perform as well as those in other developed countries, as measured by student test scores. “I think she wants to have a conversation with the country about what should we expect from our schools, and about being agnostic about the form of schools,” he said.

Ms. DeVos has had a rocky introduction to Washington, to put it mildly. In her Senate confirmation hearings, her shaky answers to questions about education policy and federal law, and her suggestion that some school officials carried guns to protect against grizzly bears — allies say it was meant as a joke — made her a target for late-night television comedy.

The Senate confirmed her, 51-50, with Vice President Mike Pence casting a tiebreaking vote — a first for a cabinet officer.

Friends say she was irked at being portrayed as ignorant. But she rarely considers such criticism worth responding to, in contrast to the president. Publicly, she shrugged off the mockery, even joking in her first meeting with Education Department employees that her confirmation had been “a bit of a bear.” On Thursday, she said, “The media has had its fun with me, and that’s O.K.”

One of her first acts as secretary was to call the leaders of the two major teachers’ unions, Ms. Weingarten and Lily Eskelsen García, president of the National Education Association. Ms. Eskelsen García said she saw no point in talking yet, but Ms. Weingarten returned the call, and she and Ms. DeVos made plans to visit schools together.

“It was a smart move” by the secretary, Mr. McNeilly said. “People in Washington will find out, opposition only emboldens her,” he said. “She knows how to play power politics.”But the president suggested his job-creation strategy was still something of a blank slate.

“We’re going to then go through the room very, very carefully,” Mr. Trump said to the executives as reporters were escorted out of the State Dining Room so that he and the business leaders could meet privately. “We’re going to find out how we bring more jobs back.”


Manufacturing executives appeared elated to be asked.

“Thank you for the opportunity in bringing the language of business back to the White House,” said Andrew Liveris, chief executive of Dow Chemical. “I’m here to make chemistry sexy again.”

Marillyn A. Hewson, chief executive of Lockheed Martin, said she was “very excited about the fact that this is one of the first actions that you want to take on.”

Mr. Trump said that Ms. Hewson had been “tough” in negotiations over the price of the F-35 warplane, talks in which he intervened. Lockheed ultimately reduced the price by $700 million.

“Do you think Hillary would have asked for $700 million?” Mr. Trump asked, referring to Hillary Clinton, his opponent in the presidential election. “Oh, boy. I assume you wanted her to win,” he added, as Ms. Hewson appeared to shake her head in silence.

The president also singled out Greg Hayes of United Technologies, parent company of Carrier, praising its decision last year to keep hundreds of jobs in the United States.

After Mr. Trump’s win in November, United Technologies, which had drawn his ire in early 2016 when Carrier announced plans to shift more than 2,000 factory jobs to Mexico from Indiana, agreed to keep about 800 jobs in Indianapolis that it had targeted for offshoring. The remainder will move to Mexico.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“Did you bring any more of those jobs back?” Mr. Trump asked Mr. Hayes on Thursday.

United Technologies and many of the other industrial firms Mr. Trump would like to see increase hiring in the United States are under intense pressure from Wall Street, especially activist investors and hedge funds, to generate faster earnings growth. That has forced companies like Mr. Hayes’s to embrace cost cuts, and to move production from the United States to cheaper locations like Mexico, although profit margins are high, and United Technologies’ stock has been a strong performer.

Shares of United Technologies are up 73 percent over the past decade, ahead of the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index’s 66 percent gain over the same period.


At Emerson Electric, represented on Thursday by chief executive David Farr, the work force has shrunk to 103,500 from 131,600 over the past three years.

Campbell Soup, whose chief executive, Denise Morrison, sat a few chairs from Mr. Trump in the State Dining Room, has cut employment over the past three years to 16,500 from 20,000, or 18 percent.

“Good soup,” Mr. Trump said as Ms. Morrison introduced herself, though there was no mention of jobs.

The president appeared relaxed and in his element in the room of executives, at one point interrupting to ask Jeffrey R. Immelt, chief executive of General Electric, to tell a story about watching Mr. Trump make a hole-in-one on the golf course.

“I actually said I was the best golfer of all the rich people,” Mr. Trump said. "Then I got a hole-in-one, so it was sort of cool.”

Before the meeting, the executives huddled privately in small groups with cabinet secretaries and senior White House staff members in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building across from the West Wing, trading ideas for job creation initiatives. They complained about the ways in which current tax policy and uncertainty about the fate of federal regulations, particularly environmental restrictions, hurt their profitability and competitiveness. The comments came in portions of the meeting witnessed by reporters under ground rules requiring that individual speakers not be named.

Senior administration officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, wondered aloud about how to pay for a substantial infrastructure initiative — Mr. Trump has proposed $1 trillion — and how to replicate the success of countries like Germany in keeping manufacturing jobs while stepping up the pace of automation.

During a session on taxes and trade, executives and senior officials agreed that the business tax rate should be reduced and that the United States should move toward a so-called territorial tax system in line with many other nations, according to a White House official who described the meeting afterward on the condition of anonymity. Under such a system, countries tax corporations solely on the income generated within their borders.


But the executives were split over the plan’s components, the official said, with those whose companies depend on imported goods raising concerns about one approach being discussed that would effectively place a 20 percent tax on imports.

Mr. Trump has sent mixed signals about his position on the idea, which has been advocated by House Republicans, first expressing opposition, and then saying he was open to the possibility.

On Thursday, he said the approach could spur job creation, telling Reuters in an interview: “I certainly support a form of tax on the border.”But as constituents unburden themselves, Democrats must calibrate the extent of their condemnations — given the risk that overzealous denouncements of Mr. Trump could be dismissed as knee-jerk and partisan. “It’s still early,” Mr. Kind said. “It’s only been one month.”


Margaret Wood, a retired teacher and former county board supervisor, acknowledged that Democrats like Mr. Kind can do only so much. “Let’s face it: They’re in the minority,” she said in an interview. “He doesn’t have a lot of power.”

But she gave him credit for something else. “He is not afraid to come and meet with all of us,” she said.

More than 200 people showed up for Mr. Kind’s “listening session.” Over the course of two hours, he efficiently moved through a few dozen questions on a variety of topics, including Russian interference in the election, Mr. Trump’s tax returns and the repeal of the Affordable Care Act.

Those inquiries were similar to what Republicans have heard at their meetings — but at Mr. Kind’s session, they were asked without the anger that Republicans have had to defuse. “We’re going to be respectful today,” he instructed the crowd at the beginning of the gathering. The audience complied, applauding at times but refraining from interrupting.

Unlike some of his Republican peers who have gone before their constituents, Mr. Kind was not a congressman under siege. He encouraged people to come up to him in the grocery store, and he pointed out his mother sitting in the audience, asking her to raise her hand.

“If Ron Johnson had a listening session here, maybe some of the Democrats who show up might not be quite as polite and respectful,” Tom Wilson, 71, said in an interview, referring to Wisconsin’s recently re-elected Republican senator.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Kind, who is serving in his 11th term, ran unopposed in November’s election. But Mr. Trump beat Hillary Clinton in his sprawling district, so he must choose his words about the president with more caution than Democrats in deep-blue districts.


The National Republican Congressional Committee included his seat among its three dozen initial targets in the 2018 midterm elections. Mr. Kind might have another idea in mind: He has not ruled out a run for governor in 2018, when Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, could seek a third term.

At the town hall-style meeting, Mr. Kind was blunt about his current level of influence: Like it or not, Republicans are in the driver’s seat. “They control the agenda,” he said.

But voters had ample concerns to share.

“I think we’ve got somebody at the helm now that makes Captain Queeg look stable,” said George Nygaard, 69, who asked about putting a psychiatrist on staff at the White House, embracing an idea put forth by Representative Ted Lieu, Democrat of California.

Mr. Kind was noncommittal, saying he would talk to Mr. Lieu and noting that there was a medical doctor with the president all the time. “And yet mental health is just as important for any commander in chief,” he observed, before steering away from the subject.

Mr. Nygaard said later that he understood why Mr. Kind had chosen not to take a stand regarding the president’s mental health. “He’s in that kind of district,” he said. “We’re purple.”


Mr. Kind, who encouraged people to diversify their sources of news, responded to the man who brought up the Civil War by expressing concern about what he described as “the tribalism that’s been created in this country.”

The congressman offered particularly forceful words when asked about Russian hacking and the election, drawing a parallel between that matter and two grave events in American history. “Make no mistake,” Mr. Kind said. “We were attacked on Dec. 7, 1941. We were attacked on Sept. 11, 2001. And we were attacked on Nov. 8, 2016, with outside foreign government interference in our election process.”


The session also brought out some of the soul-searching that is still playing out for Democrats, growing out of both Mrs. Clinton’s jarring defeat and the party’s presidential primary. In the Wisconsin primary, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont won decisively in Mr. Kind’s district, though the congressman backed Mrs. Clinton.

One questioner, noting that Mr. Sanders won the district and that Mr. Trump prevailed there in the general election, asked Mr. Kind what he would say to working-class voters who “feel disenfranchised with the leadership of the Democratic Party.” The query drew enthusiastic applause from some in the room. Mr. Kind said the heartland should not be seen as “flyover country.”

Another questioner, reminding Mr. Kind how many of his constituents voted for Mr. Sanders in the primary, asked if he would voice support for Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota in the race to be chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Mr. Ellison supported Mr. Sanders in the primary.

Mr. Kind emphasized his longstanding friendship with Mr. Ellison — a law school classmate of his — but he also offered positive words about another candidate, Thomas E. Perez, who was labor secretary under President Barack Obama.

By the time things wrapped up, Mr. Kind offered to hold another meeting in the area so he could field more questions. He was also able to do something that Republicans battered at town meetings might envy: He thanked everyone for their civility.Some White House assertions about the travel ban — nonexistent terrorist attacks in Kentucky and Sweden, for example — had brief, albeit prominent, shelf lives. Others, like Mr. Miller’s assertion about the seven countries, are already being repeated.


Here are some of the more misleading claims Mr. Trump and his administration have made about the first iteration of the travel ban.

Mr. Miller asserted that scores of immigrants from the seven countries were involved in terror cases in the U.S.

“First of all, 72 individuals, according to the Center for Immigration Studies, have been implicated in terroristic activity in the United States who hail from those seven nations, point one.”

A dubious list. The Center for Immigration Studies, which favors restrictive immigration, used a Senate subcommittee report to identify 72 people associated with the seven countries targeted by the executive order “who had been convicted in terror cases.”

But at least 38 of those people were convicted of forging immigration documents, lying to the F.B.I., tax fraud or other activities that are not terrorism related.

According to the New America Foundation, all 12 jihadist terrorists who have killed people in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001, were American citizens or permanent residents, and none had ties to the seven countries named in Mr. Trump’s executive order. Out of the nearly 400 non-deadly jihadist terrorist attacks on American soil since 9/11, perpetrators were linked to Iran or Somalia in three cases.

Mr. Trump claimed that the executive order was no different from former President Barack Obama’s policy.

“My policy is similar to what President Obama did in 2011, when he banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months.”

The comparison is superficial. Mr. Trump criticized the news media for “falsely reporting” the executive order as a Muslim ban and suggested that he was merely building on a previous policy.

Mr. Obama’s State Department temporarily stopped processing refugee applications from Iraq in 2011, after two Iraqi refugees living in Bowling Green, Ky., were arrested on charges of trying to send money and supplies to Al Qaeda. But records from the State Department show that Iraqi refugees were still admitted to the United States every month in 2011.

So Mr. Obama’s “pause” had a narrower scope, was in response to a specific episode and does not appear to have been fully implemented.

Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, argued that the seven nations were previously identified by Mr. Obama as extremely terror-prone.

“Here’s the deal, if you’re coming in and out of one of those seven countries — by the way, identified by the Obama administration as the seven most dangerous countries in the world in regard to harboring terrorists.”

This needs context. Under a 2015 law signed by Mr. Obama, foreign nationals who had traveled to or had dual citizenship in Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria were no longer eligible for the United States’ visa waiver program. Libya, Somalia and Yemen were later added.


The 2015 law, however, did not ban travel altogether, nor did it identify the seven countries as “the most dangerous.” While the State Department considers Iran, Sudan and Syria state sponsors of terrorism, these designations came decades before Mr. Obama. The State Department’s list of terrorist havens does include Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Yemen, as well as eight other areas not included in Mr. Trump’s ban.

Mr. Trump warned that refugees coming into the United States are not screened.

“We’ve allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country. There was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation, there was no nothing.”

There was a way. The system for screening refugees, conceived in the 1980s and updated after 9/11, involves the United Nations and several intelligence and immigration government agencies. Applicants undergo several rounds of biographical and biometric — like fingerprinting and DNA testing — background checks that last one to two years.

Intelligence officials have expressed concern about gaps in data collection for those fleeing chaotic conflict zones like Syria. In other words, the system isn’t foolproof, but it’s inaccurate to say the United States had “no way” to vet refugees.

Mr. Trump implied that the refugee admission system discriminated against Christian Syrians.

“Do you know if you were a Christian in Syria, it was impossible, at least very tough, to get into the United States? If you were a Muslim, you could come in, but if you were a Christian, it was almost impossible.”

No evidence of discrimination. Christians make up around 10 percent of Syria’s overall population but just 1 percent of refugees admitted since Jan. 1, 2012. Neither the United Nations nor the State Department really know why this is the case, but experts have speculated that many Syrian Christians are moving to neighboring Lebanon or simply not seeking refugee status.

The strongest evidence against a systemic anti-Christian bias is the refugee makeup of the countries targeted by Mr. Trump’s executive order. For example, less than 1 percent of Iran’s population identifies as Christian, but 49 percent of Iranian refugees since 2012 have been Christian. The same pattern exists for Iraq, Sudan and Yemen.

Mr. Trump suggested that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has an unusually poor track record.

“In fact, we had to go quicker than we thought because of the bad decision we received from a circuit that has been overturned at a record number. I have heard 80 percent, I find that hard to believe, that is just a number I heard, that they are overturned 80 percent of the time.”

Not the highest reversal rate. Mr. Trump has repeatedly knocked the court that blocked his executive order, and he is right that the Supreme Court reversed eight out of 10, or 80 percent, of Ninth Circuit cases on which it had a definitive ruling in 2015. But that’s neither a record nor particularly meaningful, as PolitiFact has reported.

Two other circuits — the state courts and the 11th Circuit — had higher reversal rates that year, at 85 percent and 100 percent. And just under 12,000 cases were filed to the Ninth Circuit from March 2014 to March 2015, meaning the Supreme Court reversed less than a tenth of a percent of all the cases the circuit has heard.Former Representative Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina, for example, the new White House budget director, has called Social Security a “Ponzi scheme” and helped engineer a government shutdown to cut spending. As House Budget Committee chairman, Tom Price, the new secretary of health and human services, supported converting Medicaid to strictly capped block grants to the states and turning Medicare into a voucherlike program for future recipients. Ben Carson, the president’s nominee to head the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has repeatedly said government programs to help the poor lead to dependency.


The disparity between Mr. Trump’s rhetoric and his appointments has cheered many Republicans and left Democrats fearing that he will not only renege on his promises to protect the government’s largest entitlement programs but that he will also slash programs he did not mention on the campaign trail that offer food, housing and child care support for the poor.

“The appointments that he’s made are troublesome and very, very scary,” Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, said. “He made a pledge and sort of delineated himself from the rest of the Republican field by saying these things. Everything he’s done since he’s been elected is very worrisome.”


Already, Mr. Trump’s budget office has hinted at cuts to come in a memo that singled out the Legal Services Corporation, which helps the poor manage legal issues, and the Appalachian Regional Commission, which targets economic development in some of the poorest parts of the country. The memo also said that AmeriCorps, a program that puts volunteers into poor communities, would be zeroed out, and that the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, a nonprofit organization focused on urban development, would see its budget cut substantially.

On Capitol Hill, some Republicans are hoping Mr. Mulvaney and others will change the president’s mind on far bigger targets and convince him that structural changes to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid — the biggest drivers of deficits that are projected to rise over the next decade — are needed to control the national debt and to preserve the programs without substantial tax increases.

Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid consumed nearly $1.9 trillion of the government’s $3.9 trillion in spending in 2016, according to the Congressional Budget Office, and with the number of people 65 and over projected to rise by a third over the next decade, Social Security and Medicare spending is projected to increase from a third of all spending in 2017 to 42 percent by 2027. Including Medicaid and military and federal civilian retirement benefits, federal spending on older adults will rise from 37 percent of outlays in 2017 to 45 percent in 2027 if nothing is done to change the programs.

Even some liberal economists say that will amount to a transfer of funds from poor children and families toward better-off older Americans, because the budget office projects that discretionary spending — where most programs for poor families come from — will be squeezed from 6.3 percent of the economy now to 5.3 percent in 2027, the smallest level since 1962.

With those numbers on their side, Republicans are most likely to use their power in both the executive and legislative branches to push through large cuts to federal programs for poor and working-class Americans, say Democrats and liberal policy analysts — if Mr. Trump eases up on his promises.

“This is the greatest threat to low-income people in my lifetime,” said Olivia Golden, executive director of the Center for Law and Social Policy, a nonprofit organization focused on low-income Americans.


House Republican allies see no real contradiction in Mr. Trump’s campaign promises and what they say he must now do. Since President George W. Bush’s failed 2005 effort to partially privatize Social Security, Republicans have assured retirees and those nearing retirement that any changes or cuts to entitlement programs for older adults would not affect them.

Now, Republicans are retroactively applying those caveats to Mr. Trump’s promises, saying the president understands that programs like Social Security and Medicare must be maintained for Americans who are currently receiving benefits but must be changed for younger Americans who may have to work longer before retiring and getting benefits.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It was really about making sure that those people who are getting benefits or about to get benefits are protected,” said Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and a leader of the hard-line conservative House Freedom Caucus. “If we do nothing, he will not save Medicare and Social Security.”

Representative Jeff Duncan, Republican of South Carolina, said he would be closely watching his former Freedom Caucus colleague, Mr. Mulvaney, as he settles in to work at the Office of Management and Budget. “I’m curious to see how Mick Mulvaney approaches this from O.M.B. because he is very like-minded with us here,” Mr. Duncan said.

In fact, on the campaign trail and in interviews before the election, Mr. Trump did not suggest that he would maintain the programs in their current form only for older Americans. His rallies were attended by a cross-section of ages, who cheered his broad promises. And last March, Mr. Trump said during a debate among Republican presidential candidates that he planned to make no changes.

“I will do everything within my power not to touch Social Security, to leave it the way it is,” Mr. Trump said. “I want to leave Social Security as is, I want to make our country rich again so we can afford it.”

The pressure to break that promise will come not only from congressional Republicans but also from his own campaign pledges to build a wall along the Mexican border, increase spending on defense, border security and infrastructure, cut taxes “big league” and control the deficit.

“The last time we saw this kind of budgetary logic was at the beginning of the Reagan administration when he came into office, pledged to beef up defense spending and cut taxes,” said William A. Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former aide to President Bill Clinton. “They tried to keep the spending increases down and the deficit increases down by whacking away at social safety net programs, many of which were cut during that period.”


Even if Mr. Trump keeps his promise not to touch Social Security and Medicare, other programs like housing subsidies, child care assistance, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, also known as food stamps, could be cut, social welfare and budget analysts say.

And those cuts would not just affect poor minority voters, who tend to support Democratic candidates. A study released this month by the liberal-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities research group shows that white working-age adults without a college degree, a critical voting block for Republicans, benefit the most from social safety net programs and poverty-reducing benefits.

“My fear is that we are going to see the biggest cuts that any president has ever proposed in programs for low- and modest-income families,” said Bob Greenstein, the center’s president. “It could be the biggest Robin Hood in reverse a president has ever offered.”Left uncertain is what, if anything, will happen regarding Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, who has played a major role in shaping foreign policy. Under the original organization plan last month, Mr. Bannon was invited to attend any National Security Council meeting led by the president and was made a regular member of the so-called principals committee of cabinet secretaries.


One senior official supportive of Mr. Bannon’s position said it would not change under any reorganization. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said this week that Mr. McMaster would have full authority to organize his staff, but that any change in Mr. Bannon’s status would have to be approved by the president.

Veterans of past administrations and members of Congress from both parties criticized the decision to put Mr. Bannon on the principals committee, saying that it risked injecting politics into national security. President George W. Bush’s senior adviser, Karl Rove, was generally kept out of sensitive national security meetings. Mr. Obama’s senior adviser, David Axelrod, attended some national security meetings but was not given formal status.

The White House said the concern about Mr. Bannon’s role was overblown. But Mr. Trump was surprised by the intensity of the blowback to the initial order, and complained that Mr. Flynn had not made him understand the significance of the changes or how they would be perceived, according to senior officials.

The principals committee, led by the national security adviser, is the central body that decides foreign policy issues that do not go to the president and frames the choices for those that do. The organization chart issued last month said that the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff would attend the committee’s meetings only “where issues pertaining to their responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.”

While the decision to give Mr. Bannon a seat was a conscious one, Mr. Trump’s team did not intend to reduce the role of the intelligence director or Joint Chiefs chairman, officials said. In crafting their organization order, the officials said, Mr. Trump’s aides essentially cut and pasted language from Mr. Bush’s organization chart, substituting the national intelligence director for the C.I.A. director, who back then was the head of the nation’s spy agencies.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

What Mr. Trump’s team did not realize, officials said, was that Mr. Obama’s organization chart made those two positions full members of the committee.

As a practical matter, Mr. Trump’s aides may not have intended a substantive change, but the political symbolism of elevating Mr. Bannon while seemingly demoting military and intelligence leaders was an immediate distraction.

Even before Mr. McMaster’s appointment, White House officials were talking about revising the organization chart. The issue came to a head after Mr. Trump asked for Mr. Flynn’s resignation last week because Mr. Flynn had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials about what he discussed with Russia’s ambassador in a December phone call.

Under Mr. Flynn, the National Security Council staff, composed largely of career professionals, was unsettled by the new administration. Staff members privately complained that they were shut out of meetings on their areas of responsibility and were not fully informed about the president’s policies or communications with foreign leaders. Some said they feared that their telephone calls or emails were being monitored. For its part, Mr. Trump’s team suspected the staff members of leaking information to sabotage the new president’s plans.

While Mr. McMaster has little experience in Washington, his appointment has been welcomed on both sides of the political aisle as a sign of a more pragmatic and less ideological national security team.


Since arriving this week, Mr. McMaster has made a point of going door to door through the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where most national security aides work, to introduce himself and build relations, current and former officials said. He is planning an all-hands staff meeting on Thursday.The furtive visit came as the Trump administration set off this week to reshape the nation’s immigration policy, authorizing the expulsion of undocumented immigrants who have committed even minor offenses and making it easier to deport people immediately.


Yet the centerpiece of the president’s plans, the border wall that helped define his campaign, will rise or fall in places like this — a waterway where many experts believe a physical barrier is unwise — and with people like Mr. Ryan, who control the purse strings on Capitol Hill and have not always echoed Mr. Trump’s hard line.

Most congressional Republicans have been tugged into Mr. Trump’s thrall on border security, if they were not there already, with little outward complaint. At the party’s retreat in Philadelphia last month, lawmakers appeared primed to pay for a $12 billion to $15 billion border wall, although some estimates place the price tag billions higher.

In some corners of the Republican Party, Mr. Trump’s victory has instilled in lawmakers and operatives a renewed sense of swagger, defying predictions that the party was doomed to perpetual presidential disappointment as white voters became a smaller share of the electorate over time.

Over the long term, though, party strategists acknowledge that their problems with Hispanic voters have only deepened, as have their troubles with business leaders who rely on immigrant labor and remain committed to comprehensive immigration reform of the sort that died in Congress during the Obama years. Many Democrats agree, viewing Mr. Trump’s border push as a political loser that will energize the progressive base and entangle Republicans in a costly wall construction that the Mexican government, despite Mr. Trump’s longstanding pledge, is unlikely to fund.


In border towns like this, in a House district represented by a Democrat, Mr. Trump’s reign has become a galvanizing force for both sides. As Mr. Ryan prepared on Wednesday to meet with officials at a Department of Homeland Security building in McAllen, Tex., protesters waited to greet him across a highway. “Keep the kids, deport the racists,” one sign read. Quickly, a chant broke out: “Puentes, no muros.” Bridges, not walls.

Others expressed disappointment in Mr. Ryan, a politician they once viewed as moderate on immigration.

“At one time, I did think he was going to work for us,” said Gloria Rodriguez, 60, of Harlingen, Tex., recalling Mr. Ryan’s criticisms of Mr. Trump last year.

But behind her, across the highway, a truck driver had rolled down his window. “Donald Truuuuuuump!” he shouted, turning his head back as he rolled. “Yeahhhhhh!”


Mr. Ryan’s office said little about his visit beforehand and declined for several days to confirm a report by The Monitor of McAllen last week about his visit here. By late afternoon on Wednesday, aides confirmed the basics of Mr. Ryan’s day: a helicopter tour, a horse patrol demonstration, the boat ride, a stop at a United States Customs and Border Protection operating hub, and a meeting with local leaders.

“When you see with your own eyes the many challenges facing our law enforcement professionals along the border, it gives you even greater respect for the work that they do day in and day out,” Mr. Ryan said in a statement after the visit. “But more tools and more support are needed for them to do their jobs effectively. Congress is committed to securing the border and enforcing our laws, and together with the Trump administration, we will get this done.”

Mr. Ryan was joined by three Republican colleagues, including Representative Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. The speaker’s Twitter account capped the day with a photograph: Mr. Ryan in sunglasses and no tie, strapped into the helicopter, looking out on the Rio Grande Valley.

Though Mr. Ryan has said he supports the same immigration policies as the White House, he has often sounded more inclusive than Mr. Trump.

Confronted at a recent town-hall-style event on CNN by an undocumented immigrant protected from deportation under President Obama, Mr. Ryan sought to reassure her.

“If you’re worried about, you know, some deportation force coming, knocking on your door this year, don’t worry about that,” he said.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The priority, Mr. Ryan said then, was to “secure the border” and train enforcement efforts on “the people who are violent criminals, repeat offenders who keep coming back in.” The recent changes outlined by Mr. Trump’s Department of Homeland Security seem to extend well beyond this vision.

Separately, John F. Kelly, the homeland security secretary, has expressed skepticism in the past about the effectiveness of a border wall, telling senators at his confirmation hearing that a “physical barrier will not do the job.”


Some local officials who support heightening border security in their communities say the president’s tone can be unhelpful, crowding out nuanced discussion of the challenges they face.

“The reality and the political rhetoric are not hand and glove,” said Tony Martinez, the mayor of nearby Brownsville, Tex., who was part of the group that met with Mr. Ryan.

Mayor Jim Darling of McAllen, who also met with Mr. Ryan, said the president’s statements had adversely affected business in his city of more than 130,000.

“They were listening a lot. That was really nice,” he said of Mr. Ryan and his colleagues. “In some places, it probably makes some sense. A wall border to border doesn’t make any sense.”

The area has hosted other Republican visitors lately, including Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz of Texas, in separate trips, and a group of House Democrats.

“Now it’s real,” Mr. Darling said. “All the sudden, we’re doing immigration reform, in the form of the deportation process.”

Several Texas Republicans, including Representative Will Hurd, have been critical of Mr. Trump’s desired wall. Still, the president has his supporters in the region. Sergio Sanchez, chairman of the Republican Party of Hidalgo County, noted the president’s success in effectively refuting the Republican “autopsy report” after Mitt Romney’s loss in 2012. The document advised the party to embrace immigration policy changes as part of an effort to appeal to nonwhite constituencies.

“He’s taken the party kicking and screaming to areas that they never imagined they would be taken before,” Mr. Sanchez said. “It is what it is.”The documents’ detailed account of Mr. Awlaki, who stars in Mr. Abdulmutallab’s story as both a religious hero and a practical adviser on carrying out mayhem, is particularly important. The government allegation that Mr. Awlaki was behind the underwear bomb plot — never tested in a court of law — became the central justification that President Barack Obama cited for ordering the cleric’s killing in a drone strike in Yemen in 2011.


Mr. Awlaki became the first American citizen deliberately killed on the order of a president, without criminal charges or trial, since the Civil War. Some legal scholars questioned whether the order was constitutional. Mr. Obama argued that killing Mr. Awlaki was the equivalent of a justified police shooting of a gunman who was threatening civilians.


The F.B.I.’s decision in 2010 to keep the interview summaries secret led some critics to question the quality of the evidence against Mr. Awlaki. The 200 pages of redacted documents released to The Times this week, on the order of a federal judge, suggest that the Obama administration had ample firsthand testimony from Mr. Abdulmutallab that the cleric oversaw his training and conceived the plot.

The detailed reports of Mr. Abdulmutallab may also play into the debate President Trump has renewed about whether torture is ever necessary to get useful information from terrorism suspects. Most experienced interrogators say no, and their arguments would receive support from these interviews.


The F.B.I. flew Mr. Abdulmutallab’s relatives to the United States to boost his spirits and encourage him to talk — with great success. In interview after interview, he described every person he said he could recall from Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the branch in Yemen; discussed candidly his evolving views about carrying out a terrorist act; and tried to reconstruct the layout of a training camp, Mr. Awlaki’s house and many other Qaeda buildings. His descriptions were so precise that it is likely they have helped shape targeting decisions in the American drone campaign in Yemen.

Mr. Awlaki, whom everyone at the Qaeda training camp called “sheikh” out of respect for him as a religious leader, spoke at length with the Nigerian, then 23 and the son of a wealthy banker, about what he saw as the religious obligation of jihad. He put the younger man up at his house in the province of Shabwah, where Al Qaeda had a large presence, and introduced him to other Qaeda trainers and bomb makers, Mr. Abdulmutallab told the F.B.I.

Mr. Awlaki helped Mr. Abdulmutallab prepare a martyrdom video, telling him to “keep it short and reference the Quran.” He gave the recruit a way of staying in touch, evidently an email address, to report on the proceedings.

He advised Mr. Abdulmutallab to blur his trail by traveling from Yemen to an African country before booking the flight on which he intended to detonate his bomb. The choices of exact destination and timing were left up to Mr. Abdulmutallab, who said Detroit and Dec. 25 were random decisions dictated by ticket prices and flight schedules.

Mr. Awlaki offered a final reminder: “Wait until you are in the U.S., then bring the plane down.”

With this instruction in mind, Mr. Abdulmutallab told the F.B.I., he followed the progress of Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on the seat-back screen from Amsterdam into Canada, then waited as it approached the United States border. He went to the airliner’s bathroom to make final preparations for his attack and considered trying to set off the bomb there. But to be certain he was over American soil, he returned to his seat to check the map before pushing the plunger under his clothing to mix the chemicals and ignite the explosives.


Perhaps because of excess moisture, the contraption did not explode but let out a flame, seriously burning Mr. Abdulmutallab, who said he tried to get his burning pants off before passengers jumped on him. One crew member threatened to throw him out of the plane, and a passenger hit him once before another crew member intervened, he said.

Mr. Abdulmutallab began speaking to officials before leaving the plane, admitting that he had tried to set off a bomb and that he was a member of Al Qaeda. He later stopped talking, but resumed within a few weeks and appears to have become completely cooperative. He surprised prosecutors at his 2011 trial by suddenly insisting on pleading guilty, and he was sentenced to life in prison in 2012.


His F.B.I. interviews amount to a sort of jihadist bildungsroman, telling the story of a shy, serious and earnest son of a prominent Nigerian businessman. He attended University College London, hoping to study engineering and go to work for his father’s construction company, he told the F.B.I. He lived with his brother in an expensive apartment his family owned in the British capital.

But he became interested in religion, and it gradually took over his life. In 2005, he discovered the recorded lectures of Mr. Awlaki — who had not yet fully embraced violence — on sale in an Islamic bookstore in London. In 2009, while living in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, he came to feel that “God was guiding him to jihad,” and he set out to Yemen to try to find the American cleric, by then a rising Qaeda leader.

In training, he fired a Kalashnikov rifle a few times but was “never comfortable” shooting. His sober devotion to the jihadist cause, however, persuaded Mr. Awlaki that he could be trusted with a suicide attack. When a friend from Nigeria called to urge Mr. Abdulmutallab to come home, he realized his parents were behind the call. He agonized, as he prepared for the flight to Detroit, about how to tell them goodbye.

He told the F.B.I. agents that only Mr. Awlaki or a comparable figure, not his parents, would have “the religious authority” to dissuade him from jihad. His last email from Mr. Awlaki offered encouragement for his lethal mission. “I wish it all goes well, I wish you the best,” the cleric wrote.


When the agents asked whether, in retrospect, Mr. Awlaki’s documented patronage of prostitutes disturbed him, he demurred. It might be false slander, he said. If not, then Mr. Awlaki “could repent for those sins and his commitment to jihad would outweigh such transgressions,” Mr. Abdulmutallab said.

The Abdulmutallab interviews were initially sought from the F.B.I. for a 2015 book about the life and death of the cleric. The Times subsequently sued to obtain the documents, which the F.B.I. said should be secret to protect terrorism investigations.

In December, Ronnie Abrams, a federal judge in Manhattan, ordered the bureau to conduct a “line-by-line” review and to hand over whatever could be safely released. The 200 pages made available have the names of Qaeda operatives and other details redacted but give a rare firsthand account of the evolution of a terrorist who survived his suicide mission.During the trial’s sentencing phase in 1997, Mr. Buck’s lawyers presented a report from the psychologist, Walter Quijano, who said race was one of the factors associated with future dangerousness.

At the trial, a lawyer for Mr. Buck asked Dr. Quijano to elaborate.

“It’s a sad commentary that minorities, Hispanics and black people, are overrepresented in the criminal justice system,” Dr. Quijano testified.

A prosecutor followed up: “The race factor, black, increases the future dangerousness for various complicated reasons — is that correct?”

Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Dr. Quijano answered, “Yes.”

Chief Justice Roberts wrote that the testimony “appealed to a powerful racial stereotype — that of black men as ‘violence prone.’”

Other evidence suggested that Mr. Buck did not pose a threat of future danger, Chief Justice Roberts wrote.


“Buck’s prior violent acts had occurred outside of prison, and within the context of romantic relationships with women,” the chief justice wrote. “If the jury did not impose a death sentence, Buck would be sentenced to life in prison, and no such romantic relationship would be likely to arise. A jury could conclude that those changes would minimize the prospect of future dangerousness.”

“But one thing would never change: the color of Buck’s skin,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote. “Buck would always be black.”

Texas argued that Dr. Quijano’s testimony was brief and was overwhelmed by other evidence that Mr. Buck continued to pose a threat.

Chief Justice Roberts rejected that argument. “When a jury hears expert testimony that expressly makes a defendant’s race directly pertinent on the question of life or death, the impact of that evidence cannot be measured simply by how much airtime it received at trial or how many pages it occupies in the record,” he wrote. “Some toxins can be deadly in small doses.”

In 2000, John Cornyn, then Texas’ attorney general and now a United States senator, disavowed Dr. Quijano’s testimony in six cases, including that of Mr. Buck. “It is inappropriate to allow race to be considered as a factor in our criminal justice system,” he said in a public statement. The state later consented to new sentencing proceedings in the five other cases.

After Mr. Cornyn left office, the state continued to seek to execute Mr. Buck. His case was different, prosecutors said, because Mr. Buck’s own lawyer — rather than prosecutors — had presented Dr. Quijano’s testimony.

But Chief Justice Roberts said that only made the problem worse. “No competent defense attorney would introduce such evidence about his own client,” he wrote, noting that Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. had said much the same thing in a 2011 opinion at an earlier stage of the case. Back then, Justice Alito wrote that the case “concerns bizarre and objectionable testimony.”

In dissent on Wednesday, Justice Clarence Thomas, joined by Justice Alito, said, “Texas had good reason for treating this case differently from the others.”


“This is the only one” of the six cases, Justice Thomas wrote, quoting from Justice Alito’s 2011 opinion, “where ‘it can be said that the responsibility for eliciting the offensive testimony lay squarely with the defense.’”

But Chief Justice Roberts wrote that an expert presented by the defense had special force. “When a defendant’s own lawyer puts in the offending evidence, it is in the nature of an admission against interest, more likely to be taken at face value,” he wrote.

One of Mr. Buck’s trial lawyers, Jerry Guerinot, has a dismal record in death penalty cases, having represented 20 people sentenced to death in Texas, more than are awaiting execution in about half of the states that have the death penalty.

The case reached the Supreme Court on the narrow question of whether a federal appeals court should have allowed Mr. Buck to appeal a challenge to his death sentence. But Chief Justice Roberts’s opinion answered larger questions, too, ruling that Mr. Buck’s lawyers had been ineffective and had prejudiced him, making him entitled to a new sentencing hearing.

In his dissent, Justice Thomas said the majority had been so eager to reach its “desired outcome” that it had bulldozed procedural obstacles and misapplied settled law. As a consequence, the decision in the case, Buck v. Davis, No. 15-8049, “has few ramifications, if any beyond the highly unusual facts presented here,” Justice Thomas wrote.

Justice Thomas described Mr. Buck’s murders in detail, suggesting that they were proof enough that he remained dangerous and saying that Chief Justice Roberts had relied “on rhetoric and speculation to craft a finding of prejudice.”Environmental groups rushed to condemn the correspondence.

“This extensive trail of emails reads like a yearslong chain of love letters between soul mates,” said Ken Cook, the president of the Environmental Working Group.


Mr. Pruitt has been among the most contentious of President Trump’s cabinet nominees. Environmental groups, Democrats in Congress and even current E.P.A. employees have protested his ties to energy companies, his efforts to block and weaken major environmental rules, and his skepticism of the central mission of the agency he now leads. As soon as this week, Mr. Trump is expected to announce at least two executive orders directing Mr. Pruitt to begin rolling back and weakening a set of Obama-era E.P.A. regulations aimed at limiting emissions that cause global warming, and at pollution in the nation’s rivers, streams and wetlands.

An Oklahoma judge ordered the release of the emails in response to a lawsuit by the Center for Media and Democracy, a liberal watchdog group. Many of the emails are copies of documents previously provided to The Times, which examined Mr. Pruitt’s interaction with energy industry players his office helps regulate.

The companies provided him with draft letters to send to federal regulators in an attempt to block regulations on greenhouse gas emissions from oil and gas wells, ozone air pollution and chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the technique of injecting chemicals underground to extract oil and gas, the emails show.

Industry executives and Mr. Pruitt held secret meetings to discuss more comprehensive ways to combat the Obama administration’s environmental agenda, and companies and the organizations they funded repeatedly praised Mr. Pruitt and his staff for the assistance in their campaign.

In his new job, Mr. Pruitt will regulate many of the companies with which he coordinated as attorney general of Oklahoma. From that perch, Mr. Pruitt took part in 14 lawsuits against major E.P.A. environmental rules, at times in coordination with energy companies such as Oklahoma Gas & Electric, whose executives held a fund-raising event for Mr. Pruitt, while he joined with the company to challenge a rule that would require it to upgrade or replace certain coal-burning power plants.

The emails show that his office corresponded with those companies — including Devon Energy, an Oklahoma oil and gas producer, and American Electric Power, an Ohio-based utility — in efforts to weaken federal environmental regulations, the same rules he will now oversee.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“Please find attached a short white paper with some talking points that you might find useful to cut and paste when encouraging states to file comments on the S.S.M. rule,” wrote Roderick Hastie, a lobbyist at Hunton & Williams, a law firm that represents major utilities, including Southern Company, urging Mr. Pruitt’s office to file comments on a proposed E.P.A. rule related to so-called start-up, shutdown and malfunction emissions.

The most frequent correspondence was with Devon Energy, which has aggressively challenged rules proposed by the E.P.A. and the Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management, which controls drilling on federal lands. In the 2014 election cycle, Devon was one of the top contributors to the Republican Attorneys General Association, which Mr. Pruitt led for two years during that period.


In a March 2013 letter to Mr. Pruitt’s office, William Whitsitt, then an executive vice president of Devon, referred to a letter his company had drafted for Mr. Pruitt to deliver, on state stationery, to Obama administration officials. Mr. Pruitt, meeting with White House officials, made the case that the rule to rein in methane emissions would harm his state’s economy. His argument was taken directly from Mr. Whitsitt’s draft language.

“To follow up on my conversations with Attorney General Pruitt and you, I believe that a meeting — or perhaps more efficient, a conference call — with O.I.R.A. (the O.M.B. Office of Information and Regulatory Analysis) on the B.L.M. rule should be requested right away,” Mr. Whitsitt wrote to a senior member of Mr. Pruitt’s staff, referring to the section of the White House Office of Management and Budget that coordinates regulations throughout the government. “The attached draft letter (or something like it that Scott is comfortable talking from and sending to the acting director to whom the letter is addressed) could be the basis for the meeting or call.”

In an email from January of that year, Mr. Whitsitt thanked Mr. Pruitt’s office for pushing the Bureau of Land Management to loosen a proposed regulation on fracking.

“I just let General Pruitt know that B.L.M. is going to propose a different version of its federal lands hydraulic fracturing rule thanks to input received — thanks for the help on this!” Mr. Whitsitt wrote.

In another example, Mr. Pruitt’s office coordinated with the oil and gas lobbying group American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers in petitions against two E.P.A. regulations: one mandating production of renewable fuels and another limiting pollution of smog-causing chemicals. In 2013, lawyers for the group met with Mr. Pruitt in Washington. In a July 2013 email, the group provided Mr. Pruitt’s office with language for a petition against the rules.

“This argument is more credible coming from a state,” Richard Moskowitz, general counsel at the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers, wrote to one of Mr. Pruitt’s aides.

Later that year, Mr. Pruitt filed petitions against both those rules.

On Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Pruitt addressed career E.P.A. employees to assuage unease with — and even rebellion against — their new boss. Mr. Pruitt praised the employees for their years of public service and promised to listen to them.

“I believe that we as an agency, and we as a nation, can be both pro-energy and jobs and pro-environment. But we don’t have to choose between the two,” he told employees, even as he stressed that federal authority should be diminished, and that regulatory powers and oversight of pollution should be left largely to the states.


“Federalism matters,” he said.

The E.P.A. and the White House did not respond to requests for comment on the emails.

The emails do not appear to include any request for his intervention explicitly in exchange for campaign contributions, although Mr. Pruitt was separately working as a member of the Republican Attorneys General Association to raise money from many of the same companies.

The Oklahoma attorney general’s office withheld some documents, asking the judge to determine if they can be exempted from the order requiring their release. Other open-records requests from the Center for Media and Democracy, The Times and other news organizations remain pending.But Ms. DeVos initially resisted signing off and told Mr. Trump that she was uncomfortable because of the potential harm that rescinding the protections could cause transgender students, according to three Republicans with direct knowledge of the internal discussions.


Mr. Sessions, who has opposed expanding gay, lesbian and transgender rights, pushed Ms. DeVos to relent. After getting nowhere, he took his objections to the White House because he could not go forward without her consent. Mr. Trump sided with his attorney general, the Republicans said, and told Ms. DeVos in a meeting in the Oval Office on Tuesday that he wanted her to drop her opposition. And Ms. DeVos, faced with the alternative of resigning or defying the president, agreed to go along.

Ms. DeVos’s unease was evident in a strongly worded statement she released on Wednesday night, in which she said she considered it a “moral obligation” for every school in America to protect all students from discrimination, bullying and harassment.


She said she had directed the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights to investigate all claims of such treatment “against those who are most vulnerable in our schools,” but also argued that bathroom access was not a federal matter.

Gay rights supporters made their displeasure clear. Outside the White House, several hundred people protested the decision, chanting, “No hate, no fear, trans students are welcome here.”

Individual schools will remain free to let transgender students use the bathrooms with which they are most comfortable. And the effect of the administration’s decision will not be immediate because a federal court had already issued a nationwide injunction barring enforcement of the Obama order.

The dispute highlighted the degree to which transgender rights issues, which Mr. Trump expressed sympathy for during the campaign, continue to split Republicans, even as many in the party argue that it is time to move away from social issues and focus more on bread-and-butter pocketbook concerns.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Within the administration, it also threatened to become another distraction for Mr. Trump after a tumultuous first month in office. And it showed how Mr. Trump, who has taken a more permissive stance on gay rights and same-sex marriage than many of his fellow Republicans, is bowing to pressure from the religious right and contradicting his own personal views.

Social conservatives, one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal constituencies, applauded him for honoring a pledge he had made to them during the campaign. They had argued that former President Barack Obama’s policy would allow potential sexual predators access to bathrooms and create an unsafe environment for children.

“The federal government has absolutely no right to strip parents and local schools of their rights to provide a safe learning environment for children,” said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council.

But supporters of transgender rights said the Trump administration was acting recklessly and cruelly. “The consequences of this decision will no doubt be heartbreaking,” said Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign. “This isn’t a states’ rights issue; it’s a civil rights issue.”


Bathroom access emerged as a major and divisive issue last March when North Carolina passed a bill barring transgender people from using bathrooms that do not match the sex on their birth certificate. It was part of a broader bill eliminating anti-discrimination protections for gay and transgender people.

Gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues became a point of attack for opponents of Ms. DeVos’s nomination last month, as Democrats questioned her about the extensive financial support that some of her relatives — part of her wealthy and politically active Michigan family — had provided to anti-gay causes. Ms. DeVos distanced herself from her relatives on the issue, saying their political activities did not represent her views.


While Wednesday’s order significantly rolls back transgender protections, it does include language stating that schools must protect transgender students from bullying, a provision Ms. DeVos asked for, one person with direct knowledge of the process said.

“All schools must ensure that students, including L.G.B.T. students, are able to learn and thrive in a safe environment,” the letter said, echoing Ms. DeVos’s comments at her confirmation hearing but not expressly using the word transgender. Ms. DeVos, who has been quietly supportive of gay rights for years, was said to have voiced her concern about the high rates of suicide among transgender students. In one 2016 study by the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, for instance, 30 percent reported a history of at least one suicide attempt.

Mr. Trump appears to have been swayed by conservatives in his administration who reminded him that he had promised during the campaign to leave the question of bathroom use to the states.

But he had given conflicting signals on the issue, and on gay rights more broadly. He said last April, for instance, that he supported the right of transgender people to “use the bathroom they feel is appropriate,” and added that Caitlyn Jenner, perhaps the most famous transgender person in the country, could use whichever bathroom at Trump Tower she wanted. He has also called the Supreme Court decision legalizing same-sex marriage settled law. “And I’m fine with that,” he told CBS News after the November election.

Despite his personal views, Mr. Trump’s decisions in office have been consistently conservative on social issues. And he has shown considerable deference to the religious right, naming many religious conservatives to top cabinet posts and pledging to fight for religious freedom protections and restrictions on abortion.

The Justice Department is eager to move quickly in laying out its legal position on transgender policy, to avoid confusion in cases moving through the courts.

The dispute has underscored the influence that Mr. Sessions, an early and ardent supporter of Mr. Trump, is likely to exercise over domestic policy. As someone who has a long record of opposing efforts to broaden federal protections on a range of matters under his purview — immigration, voting rights and gay rights, for example — he has moved quickly to set the Justice Department on a strikingly different course than his predecessors in the Obama administration

WASHINGTON — As President Trump is giving his first address to a joint session of Congress next week, Hispanic political leaders plan to meet in Washington to draft a strategy to counter his agenda, particularly his immigration crackdown.

The Latino Victory Fund, a political action committee that works to elect progressive Hispanic leaders, will meet on Tuesday, as Mr. Trump speaks to Congress, to begin recruiting candidates at the federal, state and local levels who can push back against the president’s policies, including in cities and municipalities where they are having immediate impact.

Those include in so-called sanctuary cities, which are jurisdictions that limit their cooperation with federal authorities seeking to detain unauthorized immigrants.

“As the president is outlining his plans to break up families, roll back civil rights protections and gut the environment, we are going to be finalizing our strategy to defeat him,” said Cristóbal Alex, the president of the Latino Victory Project, a civic group affiliated with the Latino Victory Fund.

Mr. Trump, he added, “literally started his campaign on Day 1 by attacking us, and his policies have reflected that, so we need to build up our power and fight back.”

Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Attendees will include Xavier Becerra, the California attorney general; Thomas E. Perez, secretary of labor to President Barack Obama; and Julián Castro, Mr. Obama’s secretary of housing and urban development, as well as Latino elected officials from around the country, the organizers said.


Mr. Alex said that of the 13 million to 14 million Latinos who voted in the 2016 election, 79 percent of them opposed Mr. Trump, and the proportion was even higher among women, at 86 percent. They helped elect a record number of Hispanics to Congress, including the first Latina in the Senate, Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada.

“This is the silver lining on Trump’s victory, and we need to continue to build on it,” Mr. Alex said.

The Trump administration’s new policies reject the sometimes more restrained efforts by Mr. Obama and President George W. Bush and their predecessors, who sought to balance protecting the nation’s borders with limits on the exercise of laws passed by Congress. But the new policies are likely to be welcomed by some law enforcement officials who have called for a tougher crackdown on illegal immigration, and by some Republicans in Congress who have said that lax enforcement encourages illegal immigration.Mr. Spicer said that officials at the Justice and Education Departments were reviewing a policy put out by the Obama administration last May that directed public schools to allow transgender students to use the bathrooms that match their gender identity. The Obama administration said that transgender students fell under the sex discrimination measures in federal funding under Title IX.


At the same time, the Trump administration expects to announce its legal position on a separate case before the Supreme Court brought by a transgender teenage boy in Virginia who was barred from using the boys’ bathroom at his school, Mr. Spicer said. The Obama administration had backed the boy’s position.

Mr. Spicer’s assertion that the transgender question is “not one for the federal government” conflicts squarely with the view of Obama administration officials, who saw gay and transgender issues as perhaps the biggest civil rights fight of the modern era.

Vanita Gupta, who led the civil rights division at the Justice Department at the end of the Obama administration, said that the indication that Mr. Trump’s administration might back away from transgender protections was troubling.

“To cloak this in federalism ignores the vital and historic role that federal law plays in ensuring that all children (including L.G.B.T. students) are able to attend school free from discrimination,” she said in an email.

Transgender advocates said that they worried that undoing the protections put in place by the Obama administration would open the door to further discrimination against transgender students — a group that is already the frequent target of harassment and hate crimes — and would create widespread confusion in public schools about what is allowed under federal policies.

Mara Keisling, who leads the National Center for Transgender Equality, called the prospect of a retrenchment “outrageous,” and Rob Flaherty, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign, called it “a hugely consequential decision.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Trump gave conflicting signals during the presidential campaign about where he stood on the transgender question.

He said last April, for instance, that he supported the rights of transgender people to “use the bathroom they feel is appropriate,” and he said that Caitlyn Jenner, perhaps the most famous transgender person in the country, could use whichever bathroom at Trump Tower she wanted.


But when the Obama administration put in place its anti-discrimination policy on transgender students weeks later, Mr. Trump indicated that he thought it had overreached and that the matter was better left to the states than the federal government.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions is widely seen as hostile to gay and transgender rights, and his record on civil rights issues in general came under sharp attack from Democrats during his bruising confirmation fight this month.

Mr. Sessions, pressed at his confirmation hearing about his past votes in the Senate against measures on gay rights protection, pledged that “I understand the demands for justice and fairness made by our L.G.B.T. community. I will ensure that the statutes protecting their civil rights and their safety are fully enforced.”

The Justice Department declined to comment on the issue Tuesday.

The department is eager to move quickly in laying out its legal position on transgender policy to avoid confusion in cases now moving through the courts, according to an administration official speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue publicly.

One filing deadline is coming up this Thursday in the case now before the Supreme Court involving the Virginia transgender boy, Gavin Grimm. He sued the Gloucester County School Board two years ago after the board refused to allow him to use the boys’ bathroom and told him he could use a separate bathroom in a converted janitors closet. The Obama administration had rejected that type of accommodation as unacceptable and discriminatory.

The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ruled in the boy’s favor in August. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments in the case next month, but Mr. Spicer’s comments at the White House on Tuesday indicated that the federal government would withdraw its support for the boy by the time the Supreme Court considered the case.

In a separate case in Texas, the Justice Department said earlier this month that it was dropping its challenge to a nationwide injunction imposed by a judge that blocked the Obama administration’s guidance to schools last year on allowing transgender students to choose their bathrooms.

The procedural move in the Texas case indicated at least a partial retreat on the issue, but civil rights advocates say they believe that the Trump administration plans to backpedal much more severely by dropping Mr. Obama’s transgender policy for schools entirely.

James Essecks, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who is representing Gavin, said that while he was hopeful that the Supreme Court would detail clear legal protections for transgender students, the apparent retreat by the new administration was troubling nonetheless.


“It’s astounding to me that this administration would decide that it’s going to stop standing up for young children in crisis,” he said. “That’s a bad development any way you look at it.”Some White House assertions about the travel ban — nonexistent terrorist attacks in Kentucky and Sweden, for example — had brief, albeit prominent, shelf lives. Others, like Mr. Miller’s assertion about the seven countries, are already being repeated.


Here are some of the more misleading claims Mr. Trump and his administration have made about the first iteration of the travel ban.

Mr. Miller asserted that scores of immigrants from the seven countries were involved in terror cases in the U.S.

“First of all, 72 individuals, according to the Center for Immigration Studies, have been implicated in terroristic activity in the United States who hail from those seven nations, point one.”

A dubious list. The Center for Immigration Studies, which favors restrictive immigration, used a Senate subcommittee report to identify 72 people associated with the seven countries targeted by the executive order “who had been convicted in terror cases.”

But at least 38 of those people were convicted of forging immigration documents, lying to the F.B.I., tax fraud or other activities that are not terrorism related.

According to the New America Foundation, all 12 jihadist terrorists who have killed people in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001, were American citizens or permanent residents, and none had ties to the seven countries named in Mr. Trump’s executive order. Out of the nearly 400 non-deadly jihadist terrorist attacks on American soil since 9/11, perpetrators were linked to Iran or Somalia in three cases.

Mr. Trump claimed that the executive order was no different from former President Barack Obama’s policy.

“My policy is similar to what President Obama did in 2011, when he banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months.”

The comparison is superficial. Mr. Trump criticized the news media for “falsely reporting” the executive order as a Muslim ban and suggested that he was merely building on a previous policy.

Mr. Obama’s State Department temporarily stopped processing refugee applications from Iraq in 2011, after two Iraqi refugees living in Bowling Green, Ky., were arrested on charges of trying to send money and supplies to Al Qaeda. But records from the State Department show that Iraqi refugees were still admitted to the United States every month in 2011.

So Mr. Obama’s “pause” had a narrower scope, was in response to a specific episode and does not appear to have been fully implemented.

Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, argued that the seven nations were previously identified by Mr. Obama as extremely terror-prone.

“Here’s the deal, if you’re coming in and out of one of those seven countries — by the way, identified by the Obama administration as the seven most dangerous countries in the world in regard to harboring terrorists.”

This needs context. Under a 2015 law signed by Mr. Obama, foreign nationals who had traveled to or had dual citizenship in Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria were no longer eligible for the United States’ visa waiver program. Libya, Somalia and Yemen were later added.


The 2015 law, however, did not ban travel altogether, nor did it identify the seven countries as “the most dangerous.” While the State Department considers Iran, Sudan and Syria state sponsors of terrorism, these designations came decades before Mr. Obama. The State Department’s list of terrorist havens does include Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Yemen, as well as eight other areas not included in Mr. Trump’s ban.

Mr. Trump warned that refugees coming into the United States are not screened.

“We’ve allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country. There was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation, there was no nothing.”

There was a way. The system for screening refugees, conceived in the 1980s and updated after 9/11, involves the United Nations and several intelligence and immigration government agencies. Applicants undergo several rounds of biographical and biometric — like fingerprinting and DNA testing — background checks that last one to two years.

Intelligence officials have expressed concern about gaps in data collection for those fleeing chaotic conflict zones like Syria. In other words, the system isn’t foolproof, but it’s inaccurate to say the United States had “no way” to vet refugees.

Mr. Trump implied that the refugee admission system discriminated against Christian Syrians.

“Do you know if you were a Christian in Syria, it was impossible, at least very tough, to get into the United States? If you were a Muslim, you could come in, but if you were a Christian, it was almost impossible.”

No evidence of discrimination. Christians make up around 10 percent of Syria’s overall population but just 1 percent of refugees admitted since Jan. 1, 2012. Neither the United Nations nor the State Department really know why this is the case, but experts have speculated that many Syrian Christians are moving to neighboring Lebanon or simply not seeking refugee status.

The strongest evidence against a systemic anti-Christian bias is the refugee makeup of the countries targeted by Mr. Trump’s executive order. For example, less than 1 percent of Iran’s population identifies as Christian, but 49 percent of Iranian refugees since 2012 have been Christian. The same pattern exists for Iraq, Sudan and Yemen.

Mr. Trump suggested that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has an unusually poor track record.

“In fact, we had to go quicker than we thought because of the bad decision we received from a circuit that has been overturned at a record number. I have heard 80 percent, I find that hard to believe, that is just a number I heard, that they are overturned 80 percent of the time.”

Not the highest reversal rate. Mr. Trump has repeatedly knocked the court that blocked his executive order, and he is right that the Supreme Court reversed eight out of 10, or 80 percent, of Ninth Circuit cases on which it had a definitive ruling in 2015. But that’s neither a record nor particularly meaningful, as PolitiFact has reported.

Two other circuits — the state courts and the 11th Circuit — had higher reversal rates that year, at 85 percent and 100 percent. And just under 12,000 cases were filed to the Ninth Circuit from March 2014 to March 2015, meaning the Supreme Court reversed less than a tenth of a percent of all the cases the circuit has heard.Former Representative Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina, for example, the new White House budget director, has called Social Security a “Ponzi scheme” and helped engineer a government shutdown to cut spending. As House Budget Committee chairman, Tom Price, the new secretary of health and human services, supported converting Medicaid to strictly capped block grants to the states and turning Medicare into a voucherlike program for future recipients. Ben Carson, the president’s nominee to head the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has repeatedly said government programs to help the poor lead to dependency.


The disparity between Mr. Trump’s rhetoric and his appointments has cheered many Republicans and left Democrats fearing that he will not only renege on his promises to protect the government’s largest entitlement programs but that he will also slash programs he did not mention on the campaign trail that offer food, housing and child care support for the poor.

“The appointments that he’s made are troublesome and very, very scary,” Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, said. “He made a pledge and sort of delineated himself from the rest of the Republican field by saying these things. Everything he’s done since he’s been elected is very worrisome.”


Already, Mr. Trump’s budget office has hinted at cuts to come in a memo that singled out the Legal Services Corporation, which helps the poor manage legal issues, and the Appalachian Regional Commission, which targets economic development in some of the poorest parts of the country. The memo also said that AmeriCorps, a program that puts volunteers into poor communities, would be zeroed out, and that the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, a nonprofit organization focused on urban development, would see its budget cut substantially.

On Capitol Hill, some Republicans are hoping Mr. Mulvaney and others will change the president’s mind on far bigger targets and convince him that structural changes to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid — the biggest drivers of deficits that are projected to rise over the next decade — are needed to control the national debt and to preserve the programs without substantial tax increases.

Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid consumed nearly $1.9 trillion of the government’s $3.9 trillion in spending in 2016, according to the Congressional Budget Office, and with the number of people 65 and over projected to rise by a third over the next decade, Social Security and Medicare spending is projected to increase from a third of all spending in 2017 to 42 percent by 2027. Including Medicaid and military and federal civilian retirement benefits, federal spending on older adults will rise from 37 percent of outlays in 2017 to 45 percent in 2027 if nothing is done to change the programs.

Even some liberal economists say that will amount to a transfer of funds from poor children and families toward better-off older Americans, because the budget office projects that discretionary spending — where most programs for poor families come from — will be squeezed from 6.3 percent of the economy now to 5.3 percent in 2027, the smallest level since 1962.

With those numbers on their side, Republicans are most likely to use their power in both the executive and legislative branches to push through large cuts to federal programs for poor and working-class Americans, say Democrats and liberal policy analysts — if Mr. Trump eases up on his promises.

“This is the greatest threat to low-income people in my lifetime,” said Olivia Golden, executive director of the Center for Law and Social Policy, a nonprofit organization focused on low-income Americans.


House Republican allies see no real contradiction in Mr. Trump’s campaign promises and what they say he must now do. Since President George W. Bush’s failed 2005 effort to partially privatize Social Security, Republicans have assured retirees and those nearing retirement that any changes or cuts to entitlement programs for older adults would not affect them.

Now, Republicans are retroactively applying those caveats to Mr. Trump’s promises, saying the president understands that programs like Social Security and Medicare must be maintained for Americans who are currently receiving benefits but must be changed for younger Americans who may have to work longer before retiring and getting benefits.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It was really about making sure that those people who are getting benefits or about to get benefits are protected,” said Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and a leader of the hard-line conservative House Freedom Caucus. “If we do nothing, he will not save Medicare and Social Security.”

Representative Jeff Duncan, Republican of South Carolina, said he would be closely watching his former Freedom Caucus colleague, Mr. Mulvaney, as he settles in to work at the Office of Management and Budget. “I’m curious to see how Mick Mulvaney approaches this from O.M.B. because he is very like-minded with us here,” Mr. Duncan said.

In fact, on the campaign trail and in interviews before the election, Mr. Trump did not suggest that he would maintain the programs in their current form only for older Americans. His rallies were attended by a cross-section of ages, who cheered his broad promises. And last March, Mr. Trump said during a debate among Republican presidential candidates that he planned to make no changes.

“I will do everything within my power not to touch Social Security, to leave it the way it is,” Mr. Trump said. “I want to leave Social Security as is, I want to make our country rich again so we can afford it.”

The pressure to break that promise will come not only from congressional Republicans but also from his own campaign pledges to build a wall along the Mexican border, increase spending on defense, border security and infrastructure, cut taxes “big league” and control the deficit.

“The last time we saw this kind of budgetary logic was at the beginning of the Reagan administration when he came into office, pledged to beef up defense spending and cut taxes,” said William A. Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former aide to President Bill Clinton. “They tried to keep the spending increases down and the deficit increases down by whacking away at social safety net programs, many of which were cut during that period.”


Even if Mr. Trump keeps his promise not to touch Social Security and Medicare, other programs like housing subsidies, child care assistance, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, also known as food stamps, could be cut, social welfare and budget analysts say.

And those cuts would not just affect poor minority voters, who tend to support Democratic candidates. A study released this month by the liberal-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities research group shows that white working-age adults without a college degree, a critical voting block for Republicans, benefit the most from social safety net programs and poverty-reducing benefits.

“My fear is that we are going to see the biggest cuts that any president has ever proposed in programs for low- and modest-income families,” said Bob Greenstein, the center’s president. “It could be the biggest Robin Hood in reverse a president has ever offered.”“Republicans are going to come back to Washington next week and say what they’ve heard on the ground, at hospitals, at restaurants, at events where people have been concerned about where they go from here,” he said. “How much that shapes things over the next months remains to be seen.”

Also, recent polls show increasing enthusiasm for the health law as Americans see its repeal on the horizon; a Pew Research Center poll of more than 1,500 adults, released on Thursday, found that 54 percent approve of the Affordable Care Act, while 43 percent disapprove. As recently as December, those numbers were evenly split, with 48 percent approving and 47 percent against.

For Republicans in swing districts in California, New Jersey, New York and other states, the combination is a wicked brew: Those members need to build a winning coalition of base voters who hate the health care law and independents and crossover voters who have recently cottoned to it.

While the 218 votes needed in the House to get the ball rolling remain likely, it is no longer the slam dunk that Republicans had with previous bills to repeal the law, when lawmakers knew their efforts would die in the Senate or on Mr. Obama’s desk.

Some Republicans are trying to keep a low profile back home, like Representatives Darrell Issa of California, Martha McSally of Arizona and Will Hurd of Texas, to avoid the hot seat on health care.

Others, like Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, are smoothing their terms of engagement, increasingly referring more to “repairing” the law than repealing it.

“When you talk about ‘repeal,’ you have just used a word that is very polarizing,” said Representative Tom MacArthur, Republican of New Jersey, who meets weekly with moderate Republicans and Democrats of equal number. “When you go to Democrats and say, ‘Help us repeal,’ that puts them in a box. If you say, ‘Would you help us repair something?’ people start listening in a whole other way.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Others are simply taking credit for the law’s popular provisions, like the one that prohibits insurers from denying coverage for pre-existing conditions. Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, applauded some of them in a town hall this week and claimed they were added to the law thanks to her party — a claim that is simply not true.


Representative Scott Taylor, Republican of Virginia, when asked about a House Republican health care plan that would not provide maternity coverage, said he would push for such coverage to be included in any replacement plan, one of many examples where Republicans are likely to divide on policy and provisions. “There’s discussion,” Mr. Taylor said of the plan promoted by the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan. “It’s not set in stone yet.”

Republicans have been worrying about this long before constituents and protesters began jamming their town hall meetings. Shortly after the election, during a Republican retreat in Pennsylvania, many members privately complained about using the repeal as an avenue to defund Planned Parenthood or repealing without a clear replacement plan, according to a recording of the meeting provided anonymously to The New York Times, The Washington Post and other newspapers.

On Tuesday night, Mr. MacArthur — one of only nine Republicans to vote against the initial bill to begin the repeal process last month — met with protesters who have been standing outside his office, largely to discuss health care.

After the meeting, Mr. MacArthur found himself outside a basement room where a group of local Democrats had gathered, and he wandered in to chat, he said.

“We had a really good impromptu discussion,” Mr. MacArthur said. “There are very sincere people in my district who are deeply concerned about where the country is headed and doing what they should do, which is to go to their closest federal representative.”

“I think first you do the right thing for the country,” he added, “and then you think about the political ramifications, and in this case, doing the right thing would be less polarizing.”Mr. Cotton was the one who persuaded the White House to consider Mr. McMaster, who became known over the years for questioning orthodox views of the Vietnam and Iraq wars. “Donald Trump is an unconventional president, and I think it fits him well to have someone who for many years colored outside the lines and so many times was proven right,” Mr. Cotton said.


While some critics worry about the prevalence of military officers in political posts, others have welcomed the three generals, hoping that they will serve as a brake on bad ideas. “All three of them showed an independent streak and a talent that is in my view extraordinary, and I’ve known a hell of a lot of them over the years,” Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said in an interview.

How much any of the three will be able to shape Mr. Trump’s policies remains an open question. When the president considered reinstituting torture for the interrogation of terrorism suspects, Mr. Mattis objected and Mr. Trump backed down, saying he would defer to his defense secretary. But when the White House enacted a temporary ban on refugees and on any visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries, Mr. Kelly was not fully briefed until late in the process.


Mr. McMaster, 54, will have an office across the West Wing from Mr. Trump, and will see him more than any of the three. He has the least Washington experience of the group, meaning he will have to learn on the job how to balance the various constituencies, including the Pentagon, the State Department, the C.I.A. and Congress. He will also have to get to know a president who, Mr. Cotton said, had never heard of Mr. McMaster just a week ago.

Mr. McMaster will also have to figure out how to handle Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, who was given a seat on the cabinet-level national security principals committee and has played a strong role in foreign policy so far. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday that Mr. McMaster would have authority to organize the national security team as he sees fit.

But the three generals are not known only for their experiences during war. Mr. McMaster and Mr. Mattis are both thought of as scholar-soldiers. The author of a dissertation examining the failures of the military leadership during Vietnam, Mr. McMaster has lately been running a command charged with rethinking the Army of the future. Mr. Mattis, 66, a student of history, is “just as likely to quote Cicero to you as Clausewitz,” as former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates put it.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

As the head of Southern Command, Mr. Kelly, 66, spent a lot of time thinking about how to protect the southern border and fight drug trafficking beyond traditional combat operations. He also represented the Marines on Capitol Hill, learning the byways of Congress.

“The wars clearly played a role in shaping all three men, and also certainly in shaping their reputations,” said Mr. Gates, who served Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. But, he added, “These are much broader, deeper people than just their experience in Iraq, and I find that all reassuring.”

The three generals did not all overlap at the same time and place in Iraq. Mr. Mattis and Mr. Kelly grew up together in the Marine Corps, rising to four-star generals in a service that has only a handful of officers at that rank. Mr. Kelly served as assistant commander of the First Marine Division under Mr. Mattis during the initial invasion of Iraq in 2003. Mr. Kelly returned there in 2004 and a third time in 2008, when he was named the top American commander in western Iraq.

While the Marines focused on Anbar Province, Mr. McMaster and the Army’s Third Armored Cavalry Regiment concentrated on Tal Afar to the north, where in 2005 he introduced a new counterinsurgency strategy that bucked the military leadership’s thinking and helped recapture the city. His success was later cited as a model in a counterinsurgency manual that Mr. Mattis had a role in drafting with Gen. David H. Petraeus and that inspired the larger strategy shift that turned the war around in 2007 and 2008.

Mr. McMaster’s approach was not always appreciated by the military brass, however, and he was twice passed over for promotion to brigadier general. Mr. Gates personally intervened by summoning General Petraeus to take over the promotion board and ensure that Mr. McMaster would receive his first star.


Mr. Mattis was not always in concert with superiors, either. He led the first Marines into Afghanistan after Sept. 11, but when he sought to pursue Al Qaeda into the Tora Bora region, he was not given permission, and Osama bin Laden ultimately escaped. In Iraq, where Mr. Mattis’s radio call sign was Chaos, reflecting the havoc he sought to rain down on enemies, Mr. Mattis objected when told to abort an offensive to retake Falluja early in 2004 for what he considered political reasons.


Mr. Kelly is also known for speaking his mind. While leading Southern Command, he talked about the need to rebuild aging facilities at the Guantánamo Bay prison, despite the Obama administration’s official policy that the detention center was about to close. He also called for more Navy ships to conduct counternarcotics patrols despite being repeatedly told to back down.

“He does what he thinks is right, and is anything but politically correct,” said James G. Stavridis, a retired admiral who served as NATO’s top military commander and has known the general since 1979.

If all three share common experiences from the wars of the last 16 years, they were most personally felt by Mr. Kelly. In 2010, his son, Lt. Robert Michael Kelly, was killed when he stepped on a land mine in Afghanistan, making the father the highest-ranking officer to lose a son or daughter in either war.

“They’ll bring a very sober, realistic, practical experience base to the discussions in the Situation Room because they’ve lived it,” said Douglas E. Lute, a retired three-star Army general who was a senior national security aide to Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama.

David W. Barno, another retired lieutenant general and a former commander of American forces in Afghanistan, said the three would take a more thoughtful approach to the use of force. “They’ll bring in some hard-nosed realism of what war looks like,” Mr. Barno said. “It doesn’t mean they shy away from using the military, but they will have a perspective no one else in the White House will have.

WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court turned down an appeal on Tuesday from an Alabama death row inmate who said the state intended to kill him using chemicals that could cause excruciating pain. As is the court’s custom, the justices in the majority gave no reasons for declining to hear the case.

But Justice Sonia Sotomayor, joined by Justice Stephen G. Breyer, issued an impassioned 18-page dissent. She said the inmate, Thomas D. Arthur, should have been allowed to make the case that one of the chemicals in Alabama’s lethal injection protocol, the sedative midazolam, could contribute to “prolonged torture.”

In 2015, a five-justice majority in a different lethal injection case, Glossip v. Gross, issued what Justice Sotomayor called “a macabre challenge.” (Justices Sotomayor and Breyer were among the four dissenting justices in the case.) The majority said that inmates seeking to challenge a method of execution not only had to prove that it would cause severe pain but also had to propose a “known and available” way to be executed.

Mr. Arthur killed his girlfriend’s husband in 1982. “After 34 years of legal challenges,” Justice Sotomayor wrote, “Arthur has accepted that he will die for his crimes. He now challenges only how the state will be permitted to kill him.”


Mr. Arthur asked that he be executed by a firing squad, which is, experts say, a quick, painless and seldom botched method of execution.

But the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, ruled that the alternative was not “known and available,” because it was not authorized by Alabama law. That ruling, Justice Sotomayor wrote, was at odds with the Constitution.


“Under this view,” she wrote, “even if a prisoner can prove that the state plans to kill him in an intolerably cruel manner, and even if he can prove that there is a feasible alternative, all a state has to do to execute him through an unconstitutional method is to pass a statute declining to authorize any alternative method. This cannot be right.”

She said she questioned whether the Alabama law in fact barred the use of firing squads, because it authorized “any constitutional method of execution” if either of the two specified methods, lethal injection and electrocution, were declared unconstitutional.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The larger point, she said, was that the appeals court’s decision shut down an important discussion.

“The decision below is all the more troubling because it would put an end to an ongoing national conversation — between the legislatures and the courts — around the methods of execution the Constitution tolerates,” Justice Sotomayor wrote in her dissent in the case, Arthur v. Dunn, No. 16-602.

She added that there is scientific and anecdotal evidence to question the use of midazolam in executions.

“Like a hangman’s poorly tied noose or a malfunctioning electric chair,” Justice Sotomayor wrote, “midazolam might render our latest method of execution too much for our conscience — and the Constitution — to bear.”

“Condemned prisoners, like Arthur, might find more dignity in an instantaneous death rather than prolonged torture on a medical gurney,” she wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said that this test as proposed by Mr. Hilliard was opportunistic rather than principled. “That’s a test that, surprisingly, fits the exact facts of your case,” he said with a note of sarcasm.


The chief justice said a ruling in the parents’ favor could have implications in many areas, including “a drone strike in Iraq where the plane is piloted from Nevada.”

Justice Stephen G. Breyer said the parents had “a very sympathetic case.” But he said it was hard to rule in their favor without considering the decision’s implications for many other cases.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. pressed Mr. Hilliard along those lines. “You need to give us a principle that is workable,” Justice Alito said.


Mr. Hilliard responded that there were special problems on the Mexican border.

“The Border Patrol is 44,000 strong along our southwest border,” he said. “We’ve had 10 shootings across the border.”

The case, Hernandez v. Mesa, No. 15-118, started in 2010, with four Mexican boys playing in the dry bed of the Rio Grande that separates El Paso from Juárez, Mexico. The international borderline, unmarked, runs through the middle of the culvert.

The boys dared one another to run up a concrete incline and touch the barbed wire of the American border fence. Mr. Mesa, the border guard, grabbed one of them.

Sergio fled, and he made it back to Mexico before Mr. Mesa shot him.

A statement issued by the F.B.I. the day after the shooting suggested that Mr. Mesa had been justified in using deadly force because Sergio had thrown rocks at him. But when the Justice Department closed its investigation into the shooting in 2012, it said that “a group of smugglers” had thrown rocks, but it did not accuse Sergio of doing so. Cellphone videos appear to show that he was trying to run and hide.

The Mexican authorities charged Mr. Mesa with murder. But the United States has refused to extradite him. The Justice Department declined to prosecute Mr. Mesa, and it said he had not violated government policies concerning the use of force.


At the argument on Tuesday, Justice Breyer suggested a way to rule for Sergio’s parents based on the court’s 2008 decision in Boumediene v. Bush, concerning people detained at the military prison in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. That decision allowed detainees to invoke the Constitution based on the United States’ practical control over the naval base there.

The culvert where Sergio was shot could be said to be a similar kind of place, Justice Breyer said. It “is a joint effort of Mexico and the United States,” he said. “So this is not just like a fence. It is an area of two fences, and between those two areas is joint exercise of border maintenance authority.”

Justice Breyer added that both Mexican and American children played in the culvert.

“The dividing line isn’t even marked on the ground,” Justice Elena Kagan said. “You can’t tell on the ground where Mexico ends and the United States begins.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Randolph J. Ortega, a lawyer for Mr. Mesa, said borders mattered. “Wars have been fought to establish borders,” he said. “The border is very real.”

But Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said it was odd that a Mexican boy killed on the American side of the border would have rights while one killed just feet away across the border would not.

“That doesn’t make a whole lot of sense, does it, to distinguish those two victims?” she asked.

As the argument progressed, it seemed clear that the court’s four more liberal justices were inclined to vote to allow the parents to sue. But it was less certain that they could capture the crucial fifth vote of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who did not seem to think the question was for the courts to decide.

“You’ve indicated that there’s a problem all along the border,” Justice Kennedy told Mr. Hilliard. “Why doesn’t that counsel us that this is one of the most sensitive areas of foreign affairs where the political branches should discuss with Mexico what the solution ought to be?”


Edwin S. Kneedler, a lawyer for the federal government, agreed. “You have a cross-border incident which necessarily gives rise to foreign relations problems, which are committed to the political branches,” he said.

Mexico filed a brief supporting the parents in the case, suggesting that the foreign relations problem in allowing the case to proceed was not obvious. But Justice Alito said the court’s ruling could offend Mexico.

“What would the government of Mexico say if we wrote an opinion that says because the United States spent a lot of money to pave this culvert, we think that the United States’ authority with respect to the culvert is basically the same as the authority that we have in Guantánamo?” Justice Alito asked.

Mr. Kneedler said, “I think the Mexican government would be very offended by it.”

Justice Kagan said the Supreme Court was capable of avoiding that problem. “I’m sure it wouldn’t have to be written that way,” she said, drawing laughter.The president’s new immigration policies are likely to be welcomed by some law enforcement officials around the country, who have called for a tougher crackdown on unauthorized immigrants, and by some Republicans in Congress who have argued that lax enforcement encourages a never-ending flow of unauthorized immigrants.


But taken together, the new policies are a rejection of the sometimes more restrained efforts by former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush and their predecessors, who sought to balance protecting the nation’s borders with fiscal, logistical and humanitarian limits on the exercise of laws passed by Congress.

“The faithful execution of our immigration laws is best achieved by using all these statutory authorities to the greatest extent practicable,” John F. Kelly, the secretary of homeland security, wrote in one of two memorandums released on Tuesday. “Accordingly, department personnel shall make full use of these authorities.”

The immediate impact of that shift is not yet fully known. Advocates for immigrants warned on Tuesday that the new border control and enforcement directives would create an atmosphere of fear that was likely to drive those in the country illegally deeper into the shadows.

Administration officials said some of the new policies — like one seeking to send unauthorized border crossers from Central America to Mexico while they await deportation hearings — could take months to put in effect and might be limited in scope.

For now, so-called Dreamers, who were brought to the United States as young children, will not be targeted unless they commit crimes, officials said on Tuesday.

Mr. Trump has not yet said where he will get the billions of dollars needed to pay for thousands of new border control agents, a network of detention facilities to detain unauthorized immigrants and a wall along the entire southern border with Mexico.

But politically, Mr. Kelly’s actions on Tuesday serve to reinforce the president’s standing among a core constituency — those who blame unauthorized immigrants for taking jobs away from citizens, committing heinous crimes and being a financial burden on federal, state and local governments.

And because of the changes, millions of immigrants in the country illegally now face a far greater likelihood of being discovered, arrested and eventually deported.


“The message is: The immigration law is back in business,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports restricted immigration. “That violating immigration law is no longer a secondary offense.”

Lawyers and advocates for immigrants said the new policies could still be challenged in court. Maricopa County in Arizona spent years defending its sheriff at the time, Joseph Arpaio, in federal court, where he was found to have discriminated against Latinos.

Video

And courts in Illinois, Oregon, Pennsylvania and several other states have rejected the power given to local and state law enforcement officers to hold immigrants for up to 48 hours beyond their scheduled release from detention at the request of federal authorities under a program known as Secure Communities, which Mr. Trump is reviving.

“When you tell state and local police that their job is to do immigration enforcement,” said Omar Jadwat, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, “it translates into the unwarranted and illegal targeting of people because of their race, because of their language, because of the color of their skin.”

Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday that the president wanted to “take the shackles off” of the nation’s immigration enforcers. He insisted that the new policies made it clear that “the No. 1 priority is that people who pose a threat to our country are immediately dealt with.”

In fact, that was already the policy under the Obama administration, which instructed agents that undocumented immigrants convicted of serious crimes were the priority for deportation. Now, enforcement officials have been directed to seek the deportation of anyone in the country illegally.

“Under this executive order, ICE will not exempt classes or categories of removal aliens from potential enforcement,” a fact sheet released by the Department of Homeland Security said, using the acronym for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “All of those present in violation of the immigration laws may be subject to immigration arrest, detention, and, if found removable by final order, removal from the United States.”

That includes people convicted of fraud in any official matter before a governmental agency and people who “have abused any program related to receipt of public benefits.”


The policy also expands a program that lets officials bypass due process protections such as court hearings in some deportation cases.

Under the Obama administration, the program, known as “expedited removal,” was used only when an immigrant was arrested within 100 miles of the border and had been in the country no more than 14 days. Now it will include all those who have been in the country for up to two years, no matter where they are caught.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The administration seems to be putting its foot down as far as the gas pedal will go,” said Heidi Altman, policy director for the National Immigrant Justice Center, a Chicago-based group that offers legal services to immigrants.

In the documents released on Tuesday, the Department of Homeland Security is directed to begin the process of hiring 10,000 immigration and customs agents, expanding the number of detention facilities and creating an office within Immigration and Customs Enforcement to help families of those killed by undocumented immigrants.

The directives would also revive a program that recruits local police officers and sheriff’s deputies to help with deportation, effectively making them de facto immigration agents. The effort, called the 287(g) program, was scaled back during the Obama administration.

The program faces resistance from many states and dozens of so-called sanctuary cities, which have refused to allow their law enforcement workers to help round up undocumented individuals. In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio in a statement on Tuesday pledged the city’s cooperation in cases involving “proven public safety threats,” but vowed that “what we will not do is turn our N.Y.P.D. officers into immigration agents.”

Under the new directives, the agency would no longer provide privacy protections to people who are not American citizens or green card holders. A policy established in the last days of the Bush administration in January 2009 provided some legal protection for information collected by the Department of Homeland Security on nonresidents.

The new policies also target unauthorized immigrants who smuggle their children into the country, as happened with Central American children seeking to reunite with parents living in the United States. Under the new directives, such parents could face deportation or prosecution for smuggling or human trafficking.

Officials said that returning Central American refugees to Mexico to await hearings would be done only in a limited fashion, and only after discussions with the government of Mexico.


Mexican officials said on Tuesday that such a move could violate Mexican law and international accords governing repatriation, and immigrants’ advocates questioned Mexico’s ability to absorb thousands of Central Americans in detention centers and shelters.Mr. Trump’s comment on Tuesday was a rare concession to the demands of outside forces by a president who prides himself on standing his ground. Despite the questions that arose during his campaign, Mr. Trump has never proactively delivered a statement condemning anti-Semitism.


“The president’s sudden acknowledgment of anti-Semitism is a Band-Aid on the cancer of anti-Semitism that has infected his own administration,” said Steven Goldstein, the executive director of the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect. “When President Trump responds to anti-Semitism proactively and in real time, and without pleas and pressure, that’s when we’ll be able to say this president has turned a corner.”

He added, “This is not that moment.”

The White House was criticized by Jewish groups last month when it issued a statement honoring International Holocaust Remembrance Day that did not mention the six million Jews who perished, instead broadly mentioning “the depravity and horror inflicted on innocent people by Nazi terror” and “those who died.” Pressed on the matter, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, defended the statement as “inclusive” of all of those targeted during the Holocaust, including Gypsies, priests and gay people, and he called the criticism “pathetic.”

Concern mounted among Jewish leaders after a news conference last week at which Mr. Trump reacted angrily to a question about his response to the increasing number of anti-Semitic acts around the nation. The president called the query insulting and demanded that the questioner, who works for a Jewish publication, sit down. The Anti-Defamation League called the president’s reaction “mind-boggling.”

Mr. Trump, who was criticized during his campaign for being slow or halfhearted in condemning hate speech, has been particularly stung by accusations that he is anti-Semitic or that he has nurtured the rise of such sentiments. Such accusations have been leveled against both the president and his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, a former chairman of Breitbart News, a website that has cultivated a white nationalist following.

The president’s daughter Ivanka Trump, who converted to Judaism to marry Mr. Kushner, an observant Jew, wrote in a Twitter post on Monday: “America is a nation built on the principle of religious tolerance. We must protect our houses of worship & religious centers. #JCC.” JCC is the abbreviation for Jewish community centers.

Morton A. Klein, the president of the Zionist Organization of America and a strong supporter of Mr. Trump, said, “One of the issues here is that President Trump and Steve Bannon are very upset and very frustrated that so many Jewish organizational leaders have accused them of being anti-Semitic, which is very unfair and simply inaccurate.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Klein added, though, that “President Trump needed to, himself — not through a statement by his daughter that didn’t even mention anti-Semitism — speak up against this kind of hatred and urge law enforcement to do all they can to find these perpetrators and hold them accountable.”

The president’s slow response, he argued, may have been in part because Mr. Trump “wants to make these decisions on his own and not feel like he’s being told what to do.”


The proliferation of anti-Semitic acts in the United States and the president’s failure to address them publicly were frequent topics of conversation in Jerusalem over the weekend, where the leaders of American Jewish groups gathered for meetings, according to attendees who described the private discussions on the condition of anonymity.

On Tuesday, several organizations issued statements praising Mr. Trump’s comments.

“We appreciate that President Trump spoke directly to this matter,” said Nathan J. Diament, the executive director for public policy at the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America. “The words of a president of the United States carry great weight, and it is important that Mr. Trump addressed the American Jewish community and all our fellow Americans at this time.”

Still, some leaders said they wished Mr. Trump had made a personal call for his administration to find and prosecute perpetrators of the recent anti-Jewish threats. The Simon Wiesenthal Center urged Mr. Trump to present a plan for combating anti-Semitism and called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to form a task force on the matter.

Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks anti-Semitic activities, said the wave of threats was “really worrying,” especially because of the “tendency on the part of this administration to completely overlook terrorism and political violence from the domestic radical right.”

Mr. Potok also welcomed Mr. Trump’s comments, but he criticized them as tardy.

“It’s very nice that President Trump opposes these crimes,” Mr. Potok said. “It might have been helpful if he had done so months or even years earlier.”

Mr. Spicer complained on Tuesday that Mr. Trump was being treated unfairly. “It’s ironic that, no matter how many times he talks about this, that it’s never good enough,” he said at a briefing with reporters. He declined to respond to a shouted question about whether Mr. Trump would ask the Justice Department to prosecute those responsible for the anti-Semitic acts.

Mr. Trump has mentioned his Jewish grandchildren and daughter when questioned about his commitment to combating anti-Semitism.

Yet defenses of Judaism that do not involve fealty to Israel have proved tougher for a man raised in New York, a city heavily populated with Jews.

In an interview with Jake Tapper of CNN at the end of February 2016, soon after Mr. Trump won the South Carolina primary, Mr. Trump demurred when pressed repeatedly about the support offered to him by David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader. “Honestly, I don’t know David Duke,” Mr. Trump said at the time.


Asked by reporters days later why he would not simply disavow Mr. Duke, Mr. Trump shrugged and said, “I disavow, O.K.?”During the first weeklong recess of the new Congress, many Republicans have chosen not to hold events at all, wary of protests that might greet them.


Others gamely faced the music, including Representative Dennis A. Ross of Florida and Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, who faced largely hostile audiences on Tuesday in districts that, like Ms. Blackburn’s, had strongly endorsed Mr. Trump at the polls.

At one point, Mr. Grassley, a long-serving senator, was offered a gift from a 62-year-old Democratic pig farmer named Chris Petersen: a bottle of Tums.

“You’re going to need them in the next few years,” Mr. Petersen told the senator, drawing laughter from a crowd packed into a room at a firehouse in Iowa Falls, north of Des Moines.


Mr. Grassley later quipped that “the only time I need Tums is when I have chocolate ice cream before I go to bed.”

Anxious and agitated constituents of Mr. Grassley’s clapped and yelled out in frustration in a rural county that voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Trump.

Mr. Petersen, the vice chairman of the Iowa Democratic Party’s Rural Caucus, gave a stern warning about the repeal of the Affordable Care Act.

“With all due respect, sir, you’re the man that talked about the death panels,” Mr. Petersen said. “We’re going to create one great big death panel in this country.”

Republicans have accused the protesters who have roiled town hall-style meetings of not representing a true grass-roots outpouring but instead being an AstroTurf movement paid by shadowy groups.


Mr. Trump added his own voice to the criticism on Tuesday.

The forums have faced threats of violence, prompting some lawmakers, citing security concerns, to cancel events after being briefed by law enforcement.

But Mr. Grassley suggested the crowds were no less bona fide than the more friendly ones he usually gets when he makes his annual tour of all 99 Iowa counties.

“I want to make clear it’s all legitimate,” he told reporters after his second meeting of the day, in Garner, Iowa. “If Hillary Clinton had been elected president, there’d be people from the conservative end of the spectrum to probably be doing the same thing.”

Video

Mr. Ross, one of the most conservative members of Congress and an enthusiastic defender of Mr. Trump’s, was called a liar by participants in his town hall in Clermont, Fla., about 20 miles west of Orlando. They held signs reading “Disagree,” “Nyet My President” and “No Pipeline.”

Elected in 2010 as part of the Tea Party wave that challenged the political establishment and fought to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Ross has embraced Mr. Trump’s agenda, including securing the nation’s borders.

A few supporters of Mr. Ross’s walked out of his meeting, saying they were upset that the congressman was unable to talk without catcalls.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

One protester tried to reason with the passionate crowd, urging people to let Mr. Ross speak and adding that if they were angry, the correct response was to vote.

“But in the meantime, let him talk so we can hold him accountable,” she added.

“This is democracy in action,” Mr. Ross said at one point. “There are a lot of people who want to participate in the dialogue. I only ask that you give them that respect and civility.”

But most of the people in the crowd wanted to be heard, loud and clear, on a litany of issues. One woman said she could not understand how Mr. Ross could oppose the presence of undocumented immigrants, given that the district was dependent on agriculture. “It’s so detrimental to our identity as a state and to the economy,” she said before disappearing into the crowd.

Video

Back in Tennessee, a number of those facing Ms. Blackburn were rallied by the local branch of Indivisible, a national movement started by Democratic activists. The group had held two meetings to discuss which issues to raise.


One of the organizers, Elizabeth TeSelle, a university administrator, disavowed the Tea Party comparison. She said Indivisible supporters were not seeking to push moderate Democrats further to the left, or to oust them by running more extreme candidates against them in primaries. “My concern is what the Tea Party ended up spawning was Trump,” Ms. TeSelle said.

Ms. Blackburn, one of Mr. Trump’s high-profile supporters in the House of Representatives during last year’s campaign, defended him on nearly every issue raised by critics.

One man called Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “a notorious white nationalist.” Ms. Blackburn replied, “My interactions with him have all been fine.”

A high school senior, Taylor Ayres, asked how she could support Ms. DeVos, “someone who doesn’t have real knowledge in the education field.” Ms. Blackburn said coolly, “She is going to do a fine job.”


Bruce Sullivan asked why Republicans had no real replacement for the Affordable Care Act after seven years. Ms. Blackburn referred him to a C-Span video from 2010 in which she and other Republicans had met with President Barack Obama to seek a bipartisan program.

“I appreciate that,” Mr. Sullivan said, a hint of sarcasm in his voice. “You are showing us you have been in Washington too long.”

At least one lawmaker, Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, had a quieter day. Appearing before a few hundred residents in a high school cafeteria in Denham Springs, La., after the students had spilled out into a warm afternoon, Mr. Cassidy, a Republican, spoke to anxious residents mostly about their more pressing concern: flood relief.


Their parish, Livingston, had received more than 25 inches of rain in three days during a catastrophic flood in August, overwhelming the rivers and devastating the city. Protesters said they had steered clear of Mr. Cassidy’s forum out of respect for the flood victims.


As Mr. Cassidy answered queries submitted on slips of paper, a woman asked if he would take questions from the floor, saying she worried they had been screened.

As if to prove that they were not, Mr. Cassidy read aloud a question about Mr. Trump’s tax returns, eliciting applause and cheers from many of those assembled.

“Looks like we have some folks who don’t like Donald Trump,” he said to more cheers. “A lot of us do.

Ivanka Trump, President Trump’s oldest daughter and a convert to Judaism, issued a statement over Twitter on Monday calling for “religious tolerance” after a new wave of threats against Jewish community centers around the country.

The tweet was Ms. Trump’s most vocal foray into a public discussion and was made over an issue her allies say she feels personally.

The message was posted after Ms. Trump wrote, and then deleted, an earlier one moments beforehand.

Ms. Trump converted to Judaism before marrying her husband, Jared Kushner, an Orthodox Jew, putting her in a position to be a prominent voice at a moment when a number of anti-Semitic episodes have taken place around the country. Her previous substantive effort in the White House involved convening a women’s business council, an event she helped create, when the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, visited the president.

On Monday, 11 bomb scares were called into Jewish community centers around the country. They were the latest in a string of such threats since the start of the year.

“Since the beginning of this year, we’ve seen four waves of these threats — we’ve never seen that before,” said David Posner, the director of strategic performance at the JCC Association of North America. Just one community center reported such a threat in all of 2016, he said.


The centers threatened on Monday were in Albuquerque; Birmingham, Ala.; Buffalo; Chicago; Cleveland; Houston; Milwaukee; Nashville; St. Paul; Tampa, Fla.; and Tulsa, Okla. Like the earlier threats, they were deemed hoaxes, but not before several of the centers were evacuated as a precaution.

Mr. Trump has been criticized as slow to condemn anti-Semitic comments, and his candidacy was hailed by white nationalists and white supremacists throughout 2016.

On Thursday, at his first lengthy news conference alone as president, Mr. Trump was asked by a reporter for a Jewish magazine how the government plans to respond to the increase in such anti-Semitic incidents. The president responded angrily, saying the question was “insulting” and that he was the “least anti-Semitic person in the world.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In addition to Ms. Trump’s statement, the Trump administration addressed the issue more directly on Monday.

“Hatred and hate-motivated violence of any kind have no place in a country founded on the promise of individual freedom,” Lindsay Walters, the White House deputy press secretary, said in a statement. “The president has made it abundantly clear that these actions are unacceptable.”

On Tuesday, Hillary Clinton urged everyone, including President Trump, to speak out against the attacks.

Also on Monday, the police in University City, Mo., near St. Louis, were investigating vandalism at the Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery where 170 to 200 headstones were toppled, according to its executive director, Anita Feigenbaum.

“I just am quite shocked — it affects so many people, so many families, so many generations,” Ms. Feigenbaum said.

The headstones are in the cemetery’s oldest section, with many of the plots dating from the late 1800’s to mid-1900’s, she said. The damage was done sometime between Friday night and Monday morning.


Many cemeteries have sustained vandalism, and the police have not said whether they believed the episode in University City was motivated by anti-Semitism. Even so, Gov. Eric Greitens said on Twitter that he was “disgusted to hear about the senseless act of desecration,” issuing the kind of condemnation that Jonathan A. Greenblatt, the chief executive of the Anti-Defamation League, had urged of all politicians.

“We look to our political leaders at all levels to speak out against such threats directed against Jewish institutions, to make it clear that such actions are unacceptable,” he said in a statement about the bomb threats.

In late January, an F.B.I. official said the bureau and the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division were investigating “possible civil rights violations in connection with threats” to the Jewish centers

WASHINGTON — For months, President Trump and his aides have insisted that they had no contact with Russian officials during the presidential campaign, a denial Mr. Trump repeated last week.

“I have nothing to do with Russia,” he told reporters on Thursday. “To the best of my knowledge, no person that I deal with does.”

The denial stands at odds with statements by Russian officials, who have at least twice acknowledged contacts with aides to Mr. Trump before the election.

It is not uncommon for a presidential campaign to speak to foreign officials, which makes the dispute particularly unusual. At the same time, any contacts would have taken place during a period when American intelligence agencies believe the Russian government was trying to disrupt the election with a campaign of computer hacking.


The dispute began two days after the Nov. 8 election, when Sergei A. Ryabkov, the Russian deputy foreign minister, said his government had maintained contacts with members of Mr. Trump’s “immediate entourage” during the campaign.

“I cannot say that all, but a number of them maintained contacts with Russian representatives,” Mr. Ryabkov said during an interview with the Interfax news agency.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Ryabkov’s comments were met with a swift denial from Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump and now a member of the White House press team.

More recently, Russia’s ambassador to Washington, Sergey I. Kislyak, told The Washington Post that he had communicated frequently during the campaign with Michael T. Flynn, a close campaign adviser to Mr. Trump who became the president’s national security adviser before resigning from the position last week.

“It’s something all diplomats do,” The Post quoted Mr. Kislyak as saying, though he refused to say what subjects they discussed.

Mr. Trump and his aides denied any contacts occurred during the campaign.



“This is a nonstory because to the best of our knowledge, no contacts took place, so it’s hard to make a comment on something that never happened,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, a White House spokeswoman, said on Monday.

The Russian government did not respond to a message over the weekend seeking comment.



Separately, The New York Times and other news outlets reported last week that Trump campaign advisers and other associates of Mr. Trump’s had repeated contacts last year with Russian intelligence officials. Those reports, citing anonymous current and former American government officials, were vigorously denied by the White House.

On Thursday, Mr. Trump made clear his annoyance when questioned about contacts with Russia.

“How many times do I have to answer this question? Russia is a ruse. I have nothing to do with Russia,” he said during a White House news conference.


The president also lashed out at “illegal” leaks for bringing down Mr. Flynn, who the White House has acknowledged had multiple conversations after the election — in late December — with Mr. Kislyak about sanctions that were being imposed by the Obama administration.

Video

Under ordinary circumstances, few in Washington would blink at the statements by Mr. Ryabkov or Mr. Kislyak. It is common for foreign governments to reach out to American presidential candidates, and many foreign diplomats believe it is part of their job to get to know people who may soon be crucial to maintaining alliances or repairing broken relationships.

“They want to better understand policy views of a particular candidate so they can perhaps make their case for certain policies,” said Derek Chollet, who was part of the Obama transition in 2008 and then served in senior roles at the State Department, the White House and the Pentagon.

Mostly, though, “it’s about relationship building — they want to get to know the people who are possibly going to be in important jobs,” he added.

The closest contacts between campaigns and foreign officials tend to be with allies. The Australian Embassy said it was in contact with the Trump and Clinton campaigns, and British officials said they had extensive contacts with the president’s top aides in the months before the election.

Contacts with potential adversaries, such as Russia, are also not unusual, but they are more complicated. Michael McFaul, who advised the Obama campaign in 2008 and later served as United States ambassador to Russia, said that he traveled to Moscow during the presidential race that year and that “everyone in Moscow knew that I was advising the campaign.”

The American Embassy even hosted a lunch for him with Russian officials. But “I was not there to discuss Obama policy but to better inform my views on Russian attitudes about U.S.-Russia relations,” Mr. McFaul said.

He said that during the transition, Russian officials wanted to talk about policy issues, but the Obama administration officials refused — in keeping with the tradition that there should be only “one president at a time.”“We initially extended the invitation knowing that the free speech issue on college campuses is a battlefield where we need brave, conservative standard-bearers,” Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union, said in a written statement.


Regarding Mr. Yiannopoulos’s comments, Mr. Schlapp called them “disturbing” and said Mr. Yiannopoulos’s explanation of them was insufficient.

Late Monday, Mr. Yiannopoulos said that he would hold a news conference on Tuesday to discuss his statements.

Mr. Yiannopoulos, who has railed against Muslims, immigrants, transgender people and women’s rights, is a marquee contributor to Breitbart News, where he serves as senior editor. He has amassed a fan base for his stunts and often-outrageous statements. But by Monday afternoon, his future at the website was being intensely debated by top management.

One Breitbart journalist, who requested anonymity to describe private deliberations, described divisions in the newsroom over whether Mr. Yiannopoulos could stay on. There was some consensus among staff members that his remarks were more extreme than his usual speech, the journalist said, and executives were discussing by telephone whether his apology was enough to preserve his position at the site.

A Breitbart representative declined to comment.

After the video was leaked on Twitter by a conservative group called the Reagan Battalion, Mr. Yiannopoulos denied that he had ever condoned child sexual abuse, noting that he was a victim himself. He blamed his “British sarcasm” and “deceptive editing” for leading to a misunderstanding.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But in the tape, the fast-talking polemicist is clear that he has no problem with older men abusing children as young as 13, which he then conflates with relationships between older and younger gay men who are of consenting age.

“No, no, no. You’re misunderstanding what pedophilia means,” Mr. Yiannopoulos says on the tape, in which he is talking to radio hosts in a video chat. “Pedophilia is not a sexual attraction to somebody 13 years old who is sexually mature. Pedophilia is attraction to children who have not reached puberty,” he adds, dismissing the fact that 13-year-olds are children.

The notion of consent, he says, is “arbitrary and oppressive.”

At one point in the video, an unknown speaker says that the behavior being defended by Mr. Yiannopoulos is akin to molestation by Catholic priests. Mr. Yiannopoulos responds, in an ironic tone, by crediting a priest for having helped develop his sexual technique.


Conservatives reacted with near unanimous disgust at the comments. Some expressed bewilderment that conference organizers would extend an invitation to Mr. Yiannopoulos in the first place, given his history of statements that have been offensive to blacks and Muslims, and have generally pushed the bounds of decency. Twitter has banned him.

“Colossal misjudgment,” Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, wrote on Twitter. “Now CPAC has put itself in the role of ‘censor.’ And for what? Some clicks and headlines?”

Until now, Mr. Yiannopoulos, a fervent supporter of President Trump, had emerged as something of a hero to many on the right, who saw in him an eager and willing combatant against a culture they believed was too politically correct. He became a star at Breitbart, the hard-right news outlet, and earned the admiration of Stephen K. Bannon, who was its publisher before becoming Mr. Trump’s chief White House strategist.

Mr. Yiannopoulos was just getting a foothold in the media. He recently appeared on the comedian Bill Maher’s HBO talk show, and aggressively taunted liberals without much pushback from the host. His book “Dangerous,” a free-speech manifesto and memoir that he sold in December to Threshold Editions, a conservative imprint within Simon & Schuster, had shot to the top of Amazon’s best-seller list, based on advance orders.

The publisher had encountered mounting criticism of its relationship with Mr. Yiannopoulos. The author Roxane Gay withdrew from her contract for a book with a Simon & Schuster imprint in protest.

The company stood by Mr. Yiannopoulos even as his planned lecture at the University of California, Berkeley, was canceled after rioting.

But in a terse statement late Monday, the publisher said it was canceling the book “after careful consideration.”

In a statement released through his agent, Mr. Yiannopoulos said: “The people whose views, concerns and fears I am articulating do not sip white wine and munch canapés in gilded salons. And they will not be defeated by the cocktail set running New York publishing. Nor will I.”

The decision is likely to be a costly one for Simon & Schuster, which may not be able to recover the portion of the reported $250,000 advance it had already paid to Mr. Yiannopoulos. “Dangerous” had sold just under 50,000 copies, according to his literary agent, Thomas Flannery Jr., who said he planned to find another publisher.The choice continued Mr. Trump’s reliance on high-ranking military officers to advise him on national security. Mr. Flynn is a retired three-star general and Mr. Mattis a retired four-star general. John F. Kelly, the homeland security secretary, is a retired Marine general. Mr. Trump’s first choice to replace Mr. Flynn, Robert S. Harward, who turned down the job, and two other finalists were current or former senior officers as well. General McMaster will remain on active duty.


General McMaster had the aura of disruption that Mr. Trump has valued in several cabinet secretaries, said a senior administration official who insisted on anonymity to describe internal deliberations. Another candidate, Lt. Gen. Robert L. Caslen, the superintendent of West Point, impressed Mr. Trump as being “from central casting,” the official said. But the president wanted him to stay at West Point, which he reveres.

General McMaster, 54, made a name for himself as a young officer with a searing critique of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their performance during the Vietnam War and later criticized the way President George W. Bush’s administration went to war in Iraq.

As a commander, he was credited with demonstrating how a counterinsurgency strategy could defeat militants in Iraq, demonstrating the promise of an approach that Gen. David H. Petraeus adopted to shift momentum in a war the United States was on the verge of losing.

Stocky, smart and soft-spoken with a sense of humor, General McMaster, for all his war-making experience, has little background in navigating Washington politics, which could be a challenge for him in his new role with a fractious national security team to corral.

His task now will be to take over a rattled and demoralized National Security Council apparatus that bristled at Mr. Flynn’s leadership and remains uncertain about its place in the White House given the foreign policy interests of Stephen K. Bannon, the former Breitbart News chairman who is the president’s chief strategist.

Most of the National Security Council staff is composed of career professionals, often on loan from military or civilian agencies, and they have complained privately about being shut out of their areas of expertise and kept in the dark about important decisions. Mr. Trump’s aides look on many of those holdovers from the last administration with suspicion, blaming them for leaks. The atmosphere has grown so toxic that some council staff members have said they feared they were being surveilled.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Several security council aides said Monday that they learned about General McMaster’s selection the same way the public did and expressed concern that Mr. Flynn’s associates, derisively called the Flynnstones, would stick around. But General McMaster has the advantage of having served in Iraq with some officials currently on the staff, including aides like Derek Harvey and Joel Rayburn.

Mr. Trump said Keith Kellogg, another retired lieutenant general, would remain as the council’s chief of staff. Mr. Kellogg has been acting national security adviser since Mr. Flynn’s resignation a week ago and was one of the four candidates interviewed by Mr. Trump on Sunday for the permanent job. Mr. Trump made no mention of K. T. McFarland, the top deputy national security adviser, and whether she would stay.


General McMaster thanked Mr. Trump but gave no insight into his plans. “I’m grateful to you for that opportunity,” he told the president, “and I look forward to joining the national security team and doing everything that I can to advance and protect the interests of the American people.”

The other finalist was John R. Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations under Mr. Bush. This was the second time Mr. Bolton, an outspoken conservative, had been considered for a high-level post in Mr. Trump’s administration. Mr. Trump praised Mr. Bolton on Monday and said he would find a position for him.

“We had some really good meetings with him. Knows a lot,” the president said. “He had a good number of ideas that I must tell you I agree very much with. So we’ll be talking with John Bolton in a different capacity.”

General McMaster has served as director of the Army Capabilities Integration Center at Fort Eustis in Virginia since 2014. A West Point graduate with a doctorate in military history from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, he commanded a unit that clashed with Iraq’s Republican Guard in one of the biggest tank battles of the Persian Gulf war in 1991, earning him the Silver Star.

But he came to prominence with his 1997 book, “Dereliction of Duty,” which critiqued the Joint Chiefs for not standing up to President Lyndon B. Johnson during the Vietnam War. He cemented his reputation in 2005 during the second Iraq war when he led the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in regaining control of Tal Afar.

The operation was cited as a textbook example in a manual on counterinsurgency doctrine prepared by General Petraeus. Another commander who had a role in drafting that manual was Mr. Mattis, then a Marine general. General Petraeus took a similar approach when he assumed command in Iraq in 2007 with a surge of troops authorized by Mr. Bush.

Yet General McMaster was passed over for the rank of general until General Petraeus and Robert M. Gates, then the defense secretary, rallied support for him.

One protégé from that time was Mr. Cotton, who nearly resigned from the Army in 2007 when it looked as though General McMaster might be forced out.

After Mr. Flynn’s resignation, Mr. Cotton reached out to Mr. Pence, Mr. Bannon and Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, about General McMaster and forwarded his résumé and personal phone number, according to several officials involved in the process. Another advocate for the general was Chris Brose, the staff director of the Senate Armed Services Committee, whose chairman is Mr. McCain.


Mr. McCain, who has been sharply critical of Mr. Trump in recent days, praised the appointment and said, “I could not imagine a better, more capable national security team than the one we have right now.”The test of wills promises to provide friction at hearings scheduled to begin on March 20 as Democrats try to pin down Judge Gorsuch on what he sees as the role of an independent judiciary in constraining the executive branch, given their rising fears about Mr. Trump. It is also the latest match in the longstanding tug-of-war over how far judicial nominees should or should not go in responding to questions from lawmakers.


Given fierce partisan tension over Supreme Court seats, it has become an uncomfortable norm for nominees to avoid providing bountiful answers both in private interviews and during the confirmation hearing. They lean heavily on the excuse that the issue could end up before the court and they would hate to prejudge it. In the current environment, the view is clearly the less said, the better the chances of confirmation.

“Everyone knows you are going to ask your best question and they are not going to answer it,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, of the difficulty of inducing a nominee to say something truly revealing.

No one expects a nominee like Judge Gorsuch to address how he would rule on a specific case — like President Trump’s contested immigration order — or offer a detailed view on federal policy likely to land before the court. But Democrats say that Judge Gorsuch must be willing to discuss the merits of past Supreme Court decisions as well as his judicial principles and philosophy if they are to make a judgment on his fitness.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It’s always important for a Supreme Court nominee to tell senators his or her views on the Constitution, but given how aggressively this president is testing the Constitution so early in his term, senators deserve those answers more than ever,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.

Lawmakers say that Mr. Gorsuch assured them during their meetings that no one in the Trump White House had asked him how he would rule in specific cases. But Democrats note that his nomination was promoted by leading conservative groups such as the Federalist Society and the Heritage Foundation. In the absence of information to the contrary from him, they say they will have to assume he shares the views of those groups on such issues as abortion and gun rights.

“His refusal to answer these questions leaves us with the inescapable conclusion that he has passed the Trump litmus test,” said Mr. Blumenthal, who, like other lawmakers, found Judge Gorsuch personable and impressively prepared.

For their part, Republicans have voiced nothing but praise for the nominee.

“I met with Judge Gorsuch for more than an hour and was tremendously impressed with his intellect, his humility and his respect for the rule of law,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. She said they had an extended discussion about precedent and that Mr. Gorsuch said he believed that “it is not sufficient to overturn a long-established precedent for five current judges to believe a previous decision was wrongly decided.” That position could be interpreted by lawmakers who support abortion rights, like Ms. Collins, to mean he would not overturn Roe v. Wade even if he were part of a majority that disagreed with it.

Kelly Ayotte, the former New Hampshire senator who is serving as Judge Gorsuch’s sherpa through the Senate process, said she found him quite forthcoming during the 58 meetings with lawmakers she attended and added that he talked at length about his rulings on the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit. “He’s obviously saying as much as he can without violating his responsibility as a judge not to offer opinions on cases that may come before the court,” she said.


In trying to forestall Democratic complaints that Judge Gorsuch has not been sufficiently revealing, Mr. McConnell has reminded Democrats of the “Ginsburg standard” — a reference to Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s repeated refusal at her hearing in 1993 to answer many direct questions on the grounds she could not “preview or forecast” her decisions.

But Republicans had their own differences in the past with the reluctance of nominees to be direct. Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who now heads the Judiciary Committee, opposed the nomination of Elena Kagan in 2010, saying she failed to provide candid answers.

One contemporary nominee did pride himself on his ability to take on members of the Judiciary Committee in a full exchange of views. Judge Robert Bork answered nearly every question from senators over five days of testimony in 1987. At the time, Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said he hoped Mr. Bork’s willingness to engage would “set a pattern for the future.”

It did. After Mr. Bork’s nomination was famously defeated, nominees have been very stingy with their answers to avoid blowing up their chances of success.Some plaintiffs, he wrote in a 2011 opinion, have reputations so poor that even serious accusations cannot damage them. Libel law, he said, is “about protecting a good reputation honestly earned.”


Judge Gorsuch added that minor inaccuracies in a news report can never serve as the basis for a libel suit, calling that “a First Amendment imperative.”

Press lawyers who have reviewed Judge Gorsuch’s decisions said they liked what they saw.

“In a handful of opinions where he has weighed in on the subject, Judge Gorsuch shows no indication that he will ‘open up libel laws’ to muzzle the press, as the president appears to hope,” said Gayle C. Sproul, a lawyer with Levine Sullivan Koch & Schulz in Philadelphia.

Eugene Volokh, an expert in First Amendment law at the University of California, Los Angeles, said Judge Gorsuch’s commitment to free speech was not guarded or grudging.

“Sometimes when judges apply the rules, you can see that they’re holding their nose,” Professor Volokh said. “He didn’t seem to be.”

The question in the 2011 case was whether a Colorado prisoner, Jerry Lee Bustos, could sue the makers of a cable television show for calling him a member of the Aryan Brotherhood, a prison gang, when Mr. Bustos had merely conspired with the gang. Judge Gorsuch said there was no reason to think that Mr. Bustos’s “standing in the public eye would be improved at all by more careful explication of the true particulars of his involvement with the Brotherhood.”

A version of this issue arose during Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, when his lawyers asked for a retraction of an article in The New York Times reporting on complaints from two women who said Mr. Trump had touched them inappropriately.

Mr. Trump’s lawyers called the article libelous and seemed to threaten to sue.

David McCraw, a lawyer for The Times, responded much as Judge Gorsuch had.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The essence of a libel claim, of course, is the protection of one’s reputation,” Mr. McCraw wrote. But Mr. Trump’s reputation in this area, Mr. McCraw said, could not have been harmed by The Times’s report in light of, for instance, Mr. Trump’s own statements about groping women.


“Nothing in our article has had the slightest effect on the reputation that Mr. Trump, through his own words and actions, has already created for himself,” Mr. McCraw wrote.

So far, there has been no lawsuit over the article.

Gregg Leslie, the legal defense director for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, said Judge Gorsuch did not have “an extensive history of speech and press cases.”

But the judge “consistently applied established First Amendment protections when he did get them,” Mr. Leslie said. “He also showed a willingness to uphold protections for speech rights even in controversial cases. It’s always good to see a judge do the right thing in tougher circumstances.”

Ms. Sproul said Judge Gorsuch had voted in favor of news organizations in invasion-of-privacy cases, even when they involved “classically sympathetic plaintiffs, like a victim of sexual assault and by cops cleared of wrongdoing.”

In a 2007 case concerning the broadcast of a videotape of a rape, Judge Gorsuch joined an opinion dismissing a lawsuit by the victim. The court ruled that the news report concerned “a matter of legitimate public interest.”

He joined a second 2007 decision dismissing a case brought by undercover police officers on similar grounds. “Courts have generally treated allegations of police misconduct as worthy of public interest,” the decision said, refusing to carve out an exception for disclosing the identities of police officers working undercover.

“We can find no precedent for such an exception, and we are not inclined to create one here merely on policy grounds,” the decision said, “despite our concerns about the safety of undercover officers and the need to avoid disincentives for entering their profession.”

Judge Gorsuch has also read other protections of the First Amendment broadly, including the right of citizens “to petition the government for a redress of grievances.” That clause, he wrote in a 2007 case involving an unhappy taxpayer, “does not pick and choose its causes.”


“The minor and questionable, along with the mighty and consequential, are all embraced,” Judge Gorsuch wrote.

Ronald K. L. Collins, a First Amendment specialist at the University of Washington, said the Supreme Court would benefit from Judge Gorsuch’s “long-held and informed devotion to free expression.”

“If confirmed,” Mr. Collins said, “Neil Gorsuch will be a take-notice First Amendment player — an intellectual and rhetorical force to be reckoned with.”

But Judge Gorsuch seems unlikely to use his skills to advance Mr. Trump’s agenda in libel cases, said Professor Volokh, who has known the judge for decades.

“To the extent people are worried that President Trump has an anti-libel-protection project,” Professor Volokh said, “there’s nothing to suggest Neil would share that project.”WASHINGTON — In a message posted on Twitter on Saturday, President Trump highlighted a dip in the national debt during his first month in office, contrasting it with an increase in the first month of the Obama administration.

The numbers are broadly accurate, but the lack of attention to them is for good reason: Neither president bore responsibility for changes in the federal debt in his opening month in the White House. The slight decline cited by Mr. Trump — a drop of 0.06 percent, according to Treasury data — is a temporary fluctuation, not a change in direction.

The federal debt is determined by the government’s decisions about taxing and spending, and by the strength of the American economy. The debt was increasing rapidly in early 2009 because the economy was in free fall, and because of policy decisions made during the administration of President George W. Bush.

The debt is rising more slowly now because economic growth has strengthened and because of policy decisions made during Mr. Obama’s administration. But the debt is on a clear upward trend. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated in January that the debt would increase by $559 billion in the current fiscal year, ending in September.


The exact amount of the debt bounces around that trend line because the Treasury borrows money by selling securities with maturities — or repayment dates — ranging from 28 days to 30 years. That creates an irregular pattern of inflows and outflows from the federal cash box.

The president leveled his complaint on Twitter not long after Herman Cain, a former Republican presidential candidate, raised a similar criticism on “Fox and Friends Weekend.”

Mr. Trump did not describe his calculations, but similar numbers can be derived from the Treasury’s daily reports on the national debt. The data show that on Feb. 21, the national debt was $12 billion smaller than on Jan. 20. As of Thursday, the day with the most recent data, the national debt had declined by $33 billion since Mr. Trump’s inauguration.

The daily Treasury reports also show that the national debt increased by $212 billion from Jan. 20 to Feb. 20 in 2009.

Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, issued a statement applauding the president for focusing on the national debt while noting that “the improvement this early in his term has to do with normal fluctuations in spending and revenues rather than new policies he has implemented.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

While presidents do not exert immediate influence over the size of the national debt, Mr. Trump will have his chance to make an impact.

He has proposed tax cuts that would reduce federal revenues, as well as tariffs on imports that would have the opposite effect. He has also proposed reducing federal spending in some areas while increasing it in others, like defense and infrastructure.

The performance of the economy will also play an important role. Economic growth generates more tax revenue and reduces federal spending on social welfare programs.

The national debt increased sharply during Mr. Obama’s first term as the government increased spending in response to the 2008 financial crisis. The debt grew more slowly during his second term as the economy improved and tax increases brought more money into the government’s coffers.His latest swipe — pulling out of Washington’s so-called nerd prom — came via Twitter on Saturday. “I will not be attending the White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner this year,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!”


He has made a sharp break from previous presidents — and from his own comfortable three-decade tango with the tabloids.

“New York is extremely intense and competitive, but it is actually a much smaller pond than Washington, where you have many more players with access to many more sources,” said Howard Wolfson, who has split his career between New York and Washington, advising former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign.

“In New York, you can create a manageable set of relationships in a smaller universe,” Mr. Wolfson said. “In Washington, that becomes a lot more complicated.”

There is another fundamental difference: During his Page Six days, Mr. Trump was, by and large, trafficking in trivia. As president, he is dealing with the most serious issues of the day. They involve the nation’s safety and prosperity, and it is the role of news organizations to cover them.

If Mr. Trump’s slap-and-tickle relationship with reporters had a model back then, people close to him say, it was the gregarious, unavoidable-for-comment style of Edward I. Koch, the three-term New York mayor. But his mood in Washington has turned darker, and over the last week he has executed, alongside Mr. Bannon and Mr. Spicer, what amounts to the most sustained White House campaign against the news media since Richard M. Nixon’s second term.

“It’s like Nixonian times again,” said George Rush, a veteran New York gossip columnist who has covered Mr. Trump for decades. “I just thought he would have a thicker skin.”

Linda Stasi, who chronicled Mr. Trump’s up-and-down marriage to Marla Maples in the 1990s for two New York papers, said she could have predicted the presidential agita. “He would plant stories and he would get mad if they didn’t come out exactly as he wanted,” she recalled of earlier dealings with Mr. Trump. “It never occurred to him that he couldn’t control everything.”

Now, Ms. Stasi said, “he is shocked that he is not in control of the press.”

Attacking the news media, which has an abysmal approval rating among Republican voters, is sound politics in the short term. But Mr. Trump’s fury is less strategic than heartfelt. He watches cable TV at night and exhorts aides like Mr. Spicer and his policy adviser Stephen Miller to be tougher, according to White House aides.


His anger is compounded by his belief that he should still be able to plant and steer stories. That was a lot easier to do when he was running a close-knit real estate and branding business with an aggressive legal team that demanded that nearly everyone in his orbit sign nondisclosure agreements.

For the first time in his life, Mr. Trump is on the public payroll and subject to a tangle of laws and rules no businessman — especially one accustomed to overseeing every aspect of a relatively small family business — would tolerate.

Video

To some extent, the clash with the press was inevitable. Mr. Trump may be noisier and more confrontational than many of his predecessors, but he is being force-fed lessons all presidents eventually learn — that the iron triangle of the Washington press corps, West Wing staff and federal bureaucracy is simply too powerful to bully.

Mr. Trump’s relationship with the press during the 2016 campaign was rocky and paradoxical. He was, at times, accessible — frequently calling reporters to kibbitz, complain or make news.

But as the resentments piled up, his staff, led by Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager, made a point of snubbing journalists it did not like and confining reporters to a small pen at rallies. Mr. Trump quickly realized, aides said, that his attacks on the “dishonest” news media were as popular as his hits on “crooked” Hillary Clinton.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The addition of Mr. Bannon to the campaign team last summer gave the jostling hostility a sharper edge. Last month, Mr. Bannon described the Trump-media relationship as “a war” in an interview with The New York Times.

“I want you to quote this,” he said. “The media here is the opposition party. They don’t understand this country. They still do not understand why Donald Trump is the president of the United States.”

Things have deteriorated since then. The White House, on the defensive last week after a series of missteps and leaked stories, sought to shift to offense, targeting the news media as an enemy, in the absence of any more formidable foil in a city now firmly controlled by Republicans.

Mr. Bannon, a former Goldman Sachs executive and Hollywood producer who made a fortune from the syndication of TV shows, described the “corporatist media” as the “opposition party” in a speech on Thursday. The next day, Mr. Spicer excluded selected news organizations, including The New York Times, Politico and CNN, from a closed-door version of his daily briefing.


Then there was Mr. Trump’s 10-minute attack on “fake news” during his speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, which was met with shouts of approval from the conservative faithful.

Reporters back in New York, however, knew that the president’s call for an end to “sources” — meaning anonymous sources leaking damaging details of his campaign’s relationship with Russian officials — did not jibe with his onetime role as a no-fingerprints gossipmonger, trumpeting his business dealings and romantic life in late-night phone calls.

“I’m against the people that make up stories and make up sources,” Mr. Trump said. “They shouldn’t be allowed to use sources unless they use somebody’s name. Let their name be put out there. Let their name be put out.”

“He used to be the one leaking!” Ms. Stasi pointed out on Friday from her office at The Daily News, where she is a columnist. “He was leaking about himself. He would call up with fake accents and pretend it wasn’t him. He would tell us 100 times: ‘Now listen, I’m going to tell you something, but it didn’t come from me.’”

Mr. Trump, who taunted his blind-quoted critics on Friday — “Let ’em say it to my face!” — hid his own identity to push self-promoting stories in the 1980s, posing as his own public-relations man under the fake names John Miller and John Barron.

Despite his dominance of social media, Mr. Trump still retains a slightly anachronistic view of the press. He prefers ink to pixels, asking staff members to print out online articles and reviewing the day’s newspapers — black Sharpie in hand — with Mr. Spicer in the Oval Office at the end of each work day. Mr. Trump reads bylines and remembers them.

He also keeps obsessive track of his presence in the press. During an interview at Trump Tower last spring, the future president proudly showed off a boardroom filled entirely with stacks of magazines and newspapers featuring his visage.

The publications, which covered an entire conference table, ran the spectrum from The Wall Street Journal to The Hollywood Reporter to Newsweek and Time. Framed copies of Playboy, TV Guide and Variety hung on the walls. It was a living, expanding shrine to his political rise — and a physical manifestation of his media fixation.

Still, for a sophisticated consumer of news, Mr. Trump retains a brutally simple, almost Manichaean view of his coverage: good stories are good, bad stories are evil. It could prove an untenable attribute for the most scrutinized man in the world.


“He loves the press; he lives for it,” Howard Stern, a frequent Trump interviewer and friend, said this month. “He wants to be liked; he wants to be loved.” Being president, Mr. Stern added, is not “going to be a healthy experience.”As a former chairman of the committee responsible for electing Republicans to the House, Mr. Walden knows the politics of health care as well as anyone. But in his new role, he must reconcile the political goals of his party, which is committed to repealing the 2010 health law, and the interests of his state, where officials say the law has been a big success. In 2010, nearly one in five Oregonians lacked health coverage. Today, state officials say, 95 percent of Oregonians have coverage.


Since Oregon expanded eligibility for Medicaid under the health law in 2014, enrollment has increased more than 65 percent. Nearly one-fourth of the state’s four million residents are now on Medicaid.

In Mr. Walden’s district, the percentages are even higher. In some of his rural counties, more than one-third of the people are on Medicaid. President Trump easily carried those counties. Mr. Walden won a 10th term in the fall with 72 percent of the vote and was victorious in every one of the 20 counties in his district, which is about the size of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut combined.

But that does not guarantee that voters here endorse all the policies of his party. Hospitals are among the leading supporters and beneficiaries of Affordable Care Act. Mr. Walden was a trustee of a 25-bed hospital in his hometown, Hood River.


“We are very worried about what ‘repeal and replace’ might look like,” said David Underriner, who supervises the hospital, Providence Hood River Memorial, as Oregon’s regional chief executive for Providence Health and Services, the large Roman Catholic system that owns it.

Mr. Walden grew up on a cherry orchard, worked at radio stations owned by his family, and followed his father into the State Legislature. The political shifts that have turned all three Pacific Coast states reliably Democratic have begun to creep into a few of the conservative inland parts of Oregon. Hood River County, long known for fruit farming, windsurfing and the spectacular scenery of the Columbia River Gorge, has lately become a center for the production of surveillance drones, leading to an influx of software engineers, technology entrepreneurs and other young professionals.

Mr. Walden’s margin of victory in November in the county where he lives was just five votes — out of more than 10,590 cast.

“It’s just a little left-leaning,” Mr. Walden allowed. “It didn’t used to be that way.”

Unlike many Republicans in Congress, Mr. Walden has worked productively with Democrats. “I’m a problem solver,” he said in an interview after a town hall-style meeting here near the Idaho border. “I’m not an ideologue. I want to fix things.”

And in Oregon, some Democrats and health-law supporters are glad Mr. Walden is in his position.

“I’ve known Greg a long time,” said Andrew S. Davidson, the president and chief executive of the Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems. “He is not interested in upending the progress we have made in this state.”


Representative Kurt Schrader, a Democrat whose district includes the southern suburbs of Portland and the capital, Salem, predicted Mr. Walden “will be mindful of the implications of any legislation for our state, which is leading the nation in the transformation of health care.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Unlike Mr. Walden, Oregon has embraced the Affordable Care Act. State officials say many of the changes proposed by congressional Republicans, including a rollback of federal funds for the expansion of Medicaid, would reverse much of the progress they have made.

Oregon has a history of health care innovation that predates the Affordable Care Act. In the early 1990s, it ranked medical procedures according to their costs and benefits, and Medicaid uses this list to decide which services to cover. Under a federal waiver granted in 2012, Oregon treats Medicaid beneficiaries through 16 “coordinated care organizations,” which are governed by local citizen councils. The organizations have slowed the growth of health spending and improved the health of Medicaid beneficiaries, according to performance data collected by the state.

Even as he writes legislation to unwind the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Walden takes pride in Oregon’s success under the law.


“Our state of Oregon has had quite a bit of innovation over the years,” Mr. Walden said. “We’ve got the coordinated care organizations in place that have actually brought better health care outcomes at lower cost. There are great ideas out there among the states, but right now, they have to come back and beg permission from a federal bureaucrat to be able to do much of anything innovative.”

When Mr. Walden first ran for Congress in 1998, conservatives called him too liberal. Since then, he has taken more conservative positions, and the party has moved to the right.

“Times change,” he said. “You get a terrorist attack. You have different administrations come and go. Culture changes. My bedrock principles have stayed the same. I favor more local decision-making and less Washington decision-making.”

Mr. Walden never wavered in his opposition to the Affordable Care Act. On the day the House passed the bill in March 2010, he and other Republicans stood on the Capitol balcony, before a throng of protesters, and held up signs with handwritten letters that spelled out their message: “Kill the Bill.”

A month later, on the House floor, Mr. Walden announced the goal that he hopes soon to achieve, using words that became the mantra for Republicans: “We need to repeal and replace this law.”


Over the last four years, Mr. Walden has been a genial attack dog for Republicans. As chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, he averted a political blood bath for his party and secured the election of Republicans in many districts that voted for Hillary Clinton in the presidential election. Many of those House campaigns revolved around attacks on the health law that he is now charged with replacing.

Oregon tried to run its own health insurance exchange, but had a disastrous experience and decided, after a year, to use the federal website, HealthCare.gov. The state has a competitive insurance market, but consumers have still seen substantial increases in prices, with the average premium for a popular benchmark plan on the exchange rising 27 percent this year and more than 20 percent last year, according to the federal government. (Subsidies cushion the impact for most consumers.)

“Medicaid did better than expected, and subsidized commercial insurance did worse,” said Dennis E. Burke, the president of the Good Shepherd Health Care System in Hermiston, Ore. “We have seen steep increases in premiums for commercial insurers, and as a result healthy people have dropped out.”

People newly covered under the health law “proudly present an insurance card,” Mr. Burke said, but in many cases their plans have high deductibles, and the hospital has difficulty collecting the patient’s share of the bill.

But Mr. Burke is not so quick as his congressman, Mr. Walden, to seek repeal.

“I think it could be fixed,” Mr. Burke said. “We need more of a retooling.”The moves underscored the degree to which Mr. Trump and members of his inner circle are eager to use the prerogatives of the presidency to undercut those who scrutinize him, dismissing negative stories as lies and confining press access at the White House to a few chosen news organizations considered friendly. The Trump White House has also vowed new efforts to punish leakers.


Mr. Trump’s attacks on the press came as the White House pushed back on a report by CNN on Thursday night that a White House official had asked the F.B.I. to rebut a New York Times article last week detailing contacts between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russian intelligence officials. The report asserted that a senior White House official had called top leaders at the F.B.I. to request that they contact reporters to dispute the Times’s account.

“The fake news doesn’t tell the truth,” Mr. Trump said to the delight of the conservatives packed into the main ballroom at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center just south of Washington. “It doesn’t represent the people, it doesn’t and never will represent the people, and we’re going to do something about it.”

In the West Wing less than three hours later, the consequences were becoming clear. Mr. Spicer told a handpicked group of reporters in a briefing in his spacious office that the White House would relentlessly counter coverage it considered inaccurate.

“We’re going to aggressively push back,” he said, according to a recording of the session provided by a reporter who was allowed to attend. “We’re just not going to sit back and let, you know, false narratives, false stories, inaccurate facts get out there.”

Reporters from The Times, BuzzFeed News, CNN, The Los Angeles Times, Politico, the BBC and The Huffington Post were among those shut out of the briefing. Aides to Mr. Spicer admitted only reporters from a group of news organizations that, the White House said, had been previously confirmed.

Those organizations included Breitbart News, the One America News Network and The Washington Times, all with conservative leanings. Journalists from ABC, CBS, The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and Fox News also attended.

Reporters from The Associated Press and Time magazine, who were set to be allowed in, chose not to attend the briefing in protest of the White House’s actions. The Washington Post did not send a reporter to the session.

Video

“Nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties,” Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, said in a statement. “We strongly protest the exclusion of The New York Times and the other news organizations. Free media access to a transparent government is obviously of crucial national interest.”


Marty Baron, the Post’s editor, called Mr. Spicer’s decision to exclude some news organizations from a scheduled briefing “appalling.”

“This is an undemocratic path that the administration is traveling,” Mr. Baron said. “There is nothing to be gained from the White House restricting the public’s access to information.”

The White House played down the drama surrounding Friday’s briefing.

“We invited the pool, so everyone was represented,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy White House press secretary, said in an email Friday afternoon, referring to the small group of reporters on hand at the White House each day to follow the president and send reports to the broader press corps. “We decided to add a couple of additional people beyond the pool. Nothing more than that.”

The White House Correspondents’ Association, which represents the press corps, also protested the decision. But Jeff Mason, the organization’s president, pointed out that the White House had provided near-daily briefings and accepted questions from a variety of news outlets since Mr. Trump took office.

“We’re not happy with how things went today,” Mr. Mason said in an interview. “But it’s important to keep in mind the context of how things have gone up until now.” He added: “I don’t think that people should rush to judgment to suggest that this is the start of a big crackdown on media access.”

Still, the Committee to Protect Journalists, which typically advocates press rights in countries with despotic regimes, issued an alarmed statement on Friday about Mr. Trump’s escalating language.

“It is not the job of political leaders to determine how journalists should conduct their work, and sets a terrible example for the rest of the world,” said the group’s executive director, Joel Simon. “The U.S. should be promoting press freedom and access to information.”

Mr. Trump, in his attack on the news media at the conservative gathering, complained at length about the use of anonymous sources in news stories, charging that some reporters were fabricating unnamed sources to level unfair charges against him.


“They shouldn’t be allowed to use sources unless they use somebody’s name,” Mr. Trump said. “Let their name be put out there.”

At another point, he said, “A few days ago, I called the fake news the enemy of the people because they have no sources — they just make it up.” He added that his “enemy of the people” label applied only to “dishonest” reporters and editors.

Those comments came shortly after his own aides had held a briefing for the White House press pool on the condition of anonymity to deny CNN’s story suggesting there had been improper contact between the White House and the F.B.I. regarding the Times article on Russian contacts.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Later, in the briefing from which the Times was excluded, Mr. Spicer said that it was top F.B.I. officials — first Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy director, and later James B. Comey, the director — who approached Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, the day after the article appeared to say that it was false.

Mr. Priebus then asked the two F.B.I. officials what they could do to rebut it publicly. They apologized and said they were unable to issue a statement or otherwise comment on the matter, Mr. Spicer said.

“They came to us and said the story is not true. We said, ‘Great, could you tell people that?’” Mr. Spicer said, describing the discussions between Mr. Priebus and F.B.I. officials.

The F.B.I. on Friday declined to provide its account of those conversations. On Thursday night an F.B.I. official said that the White House had asked last week for the bureau’s help disputing the article, and that senior F.B.I. officials had rejected the request, citing the investigation into Russian efforts to affect the election.

The article reported that current and former American officials said that phone records and intercepted calls showed that members of Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and other Trump associates had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials in the year before the election. The intercepts alarmed American intelligence and law enforcement agencies, in part because of the amount of contact that was occurring while Mr. Trump was speaking glowingly about the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin.


Last week the White House declined to comment on the Times article and referred reporters back to Mr. Spicer’s previous assertions that Mr. Trump’s campaign had no contact with the Russian government.

Mr. Baquet said on Friday that The Times “had numerous sources confirming this story.”

“Attacking it does not make it less true,” Mr. Baquet added.

Mr. Spicer’s small-group Friday session, known as a gaggle, was scheduled as an off-camera event, less formal than his usual briefings that are carried live on cable news. But past administrations have not selected outlets that can attend such sessions.

Representatives of the barred news organizations made clear that they believed the White House’s actions were punitive.

“Apparently this is how they retaliate when you report facts they don’t like,” CNN said in a statement.

Tensions always emerge between an administration and the reporters who cover it, and it is not unusual for a White House to single out groups of journalists for special briefings outside of the daily on-camera question-and-answer session. The Obama White House was harshly criticized by members of the press corps after it tried to exclude Fox News from interviews with top administration officials.

But press relations in the Trump White House have taken on a tinderbox dynamic, with journalists and press aides highly suspicious of each other’s motives.

“The grass is dry on both sides,” said Ari Fleischer, who was press secretary to George W. Bush, “so it only takes a very small match to light it on fire.

WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday assailed the F.B.I. as a dangerously porous agency, charging that leaks of classified information from within its ranks were putting the country at risk — and calling for an immediate hunt for the leakers.

Mr. Trump’s complaints were his latest attacks on his own government’s law enforcement and intelligence agencies, which he has characterized as misguided, irresponsible and politically motivated. The criticisms appeared to be a response to a news report Thursday night indicating that a White House official had asked the F.B.I. to rebut an article detailing contacts between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russian intelligence officials.

The report on Thursday night by CNN asserted that a White House official had called top leaders at the F.B.I. to request that they contact reporters to dispute the account, which appeared last week in The New York Times. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, told reporters on Friday morning that the CNN report was “indefensible and inaccurate,” and he has also called the Times article untrue.

But on Friday morning, Mr. Trump’s focus was on which members of his administration were sharing unflattering information about him with reporters, and his desire to find the perpetrators.

Mr. Spicer argued on Friday that CNN had misreported a series of exchanges between Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, and leaders of the F.B.I. in the wake of the Times report.


At a briefing conducted on the condition of anonymity for the White House press pool, senior administration officials said it was top F.B.I. officials — first Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy director, and later James B. Comey, the director — who approached Mr. Priebus the day after the article appeared to say that it was false.

Mr. Priebus, according to the White House officials, then asked the men what they could do to rebut it publicly. They apologized and said they were unable to issue a statement or otherwise comment on the matter, according to the White House briefing.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

At one point, the White House officials said, Mr. Priebus asked Mr. McCabe if he could say publicly that “senior intelligence officials” had informed him that the Times article was inaccurate, and he was told that he could. Mr. Priebus did that in an interview on Sunday.

The F.B.I. on Friday declined to provide its account of those conversations and declined to comment on Mr. Trump’s Twitter statements.

The executive editor of The Times, Dean Baquet, said on Friday that “The Times had numerous sources confirming this story.”

“Attacking it does not make it less true,” Mr. Baquet said.

An F.B.I. official confirmed on Thursday night that the White House had asked last week for the bureau’s help disputing the story, and that senior F.B.I. officials had rejected the request, citing the continuing investigation into Russian efforts to affect the election.

The official declined to say whether White House officials had reached out directly to Mr. Comey, Mr. McCabe or others. The official said the White House had reached out to American intelligence agencies in the hopes of enlisting their help.

Tension between the F.B.I. and the White House is not unheard-of. President Bill Clinton had an icy relationship with his F.B.I. director, Louis J. Freeh, whose agents investigated the president and his associates for years. But it is very unusual for a president to openly criticize the entire bureau.


Mr. Trump’s remarks add to an already unusual moment in history for the F.B.I. The bureau, along with other American intelligence agencies, has concluded that Russia unleashed a hacking campaign to disrupt the 2016 presidential election, in part to help Mr. Trump. F.B.I. agents are also investigating some of Mr. Trump’s former campaign advisers and associates.

Mr. Trump has been disparaging the intelligence community for months, particularly in response to its conclusion that Russia sought to influence the election on his behalf.

In December, he suggested that United States intelligence agencies could not be trusted because they erroneously concluded that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. In January, he denounced leaks emanating from the intelligence community and argued that they were politically motivated. “Are we living in Nazi Germany?” he said.Mr. Trump mocked election polls for being wrong.

“Look at CBS, look at ABC, also, look at NBC, take a look at some of these polls. They’re so bad, so inaccurate and what that does is it creates a false narrative.”

This is misleading. Mr. Trump, who trailed Hillary Clinton in major national polls leading up to the election, ended up winning the Electoral College. But most of the polls Mr. Trump referred to actually reflected the popular vote total within the margin of error.


The day before the election, CBS and ABC projected Mr. Trump trailing Mrs. Clinton by 4 points with margins of error of 3 points and 2.5 points. About 2.9 million more people, or 2.1 percent, voted for Mrs. Clinton than for Mr. Trump. NBC showed Mrs. Clinton with a 6-point lead and a margin of error of 1 point.

Mr. Trump said he got many votes from supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders.

“Not that I’m a fan of Bernie, but a lot of Bernie people voted for Trump because he’s right on one issue: trade.”

No evidence. Mr. Trump and Mr. Sanders hold similar positions on global trade, but there’s no evidence that huge swaths of voters who supported Mr. Sanders voted for Mr. Trump.

After the Democratic National Convention, polls indicated that a majority of “Bernie people” would vote for Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Trump’s support among those who preferred Mr. Sanders ranged from 3 percent to 13 percent, depending on whether third-party candidates were also included in the question.

Mr. Trump described the country as having open borders.

“We’ve defended other nations’ borders while leaving ours wide open, anybody can come in.”

False. The United States apprehended 415,816 people in the 2016 fiscal year, so hundreds of thousands of people did not just “come in.”

Under the country’s visa waiver program, citizens from some 30 countries are allowed to enter the United States without a visa for up to 90 days. Citizens from other countries must apply for a visa and could be rejected; waiting times vary. Refugees who are referred to resettlement in the United States typically wait up to two years.

Mr. Trump cited a big price tag for the wars abroad.

“In the Middle East, we’ve spent as of four weeks ago, $6 trillion.”

Needs context. The $6 trillion figure is the high end of credible estimates of the total cost of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as well as nation building and personnel costs. But this price also includes costs to come, such as future spending for veterans’ health care and disability.

Estimates for the total spent on the war thus far range from $1.6 trillion to $3.6 trillion. Factoring money appropriated for Homeland Security raises the cost to $4.8 trillion.

Mr. Trump said the Affordable Care Act took health care coverage away from people.

“Obamacare covers very few people. And remember, deduct from the number all of those people who had great health care that they loved that was taken away from them.”

False. About 20 million people have gained coverage under the Affordable Care Act, and the uninsured rate has dropped to a record low of 10.9 percent.


The left-leaning Urban Institute estimated that 2.6 million plans were canceled because they did not meet minimum requirements set by the act. But fewer than one million people ended up with no insurance at all, and it is not clear that this was entirely attributable to health care law.

Mr. Trump deplored the economic costs of a regulatory state.

“We have begun a historic program to reduce the regulations that are crushing our economy, crushing.”

Needs context. Whether regulations stifle economic growth is the subject of debate. But the economy, by most metrics, is faring quite well.

Unemployment is at 4.8 percent, compared with 7.8 percent eight years ago. Stock markets have been reporting record highs. Retail sales, the Consumer Price Index and the number of permits for new housing units all rose in January.

As for Mr. Trump’s executive order requiring the repeal of two rules for every one introduced, our colleagues at the Upshot explained why it’s no quick fix.

Mr. Trump suggested that the U.S. military has been weakened.

“We’re very depleted, very, very depleted.”

False. The size of the Army and number of warships have declined in recent years, but size is no indicator of power.

The number of troops will be reduced by the 2018 fiscal year, a result of pulling out of wars in the Middle East (a position Mr. Trump falsely says that he has espoused since the United States first invaded Iraq). The United States has the most sophisticated naval fleet in the world, with 10 aircraft carriers compared with Russia’s one.

Mr. Trump’s predecessor, Barack Obama, committed billions of dollars to updating the nuclear arsenal. Over all, the United States spends more on its military than the next seven to eight countries combined.

Mr. Trump again invoked Sweden as an example of the detriments of immigration.

“The people over there understand that I’m right. Take a look at what’s happening in Sweden.”

False. Mr. Trump referred to a nonexistent terrorist attack in Sweden during a Feb. 18 campaign rally in Florida, baffling an entire nation.


If he was referring to crime in a country known for taking in large numbers of refugees, the data does not support him, either. The Swedish National Council for Crime Prevention found no significant increase in overall crime rates from 2015 to 2016.

Mr. Trump suggested that crime and terrorist attacks have hurt tourism to Paris.

“I said, ‘Jim, let me ask you a question, how’s Paris doing?’ ‘Paris? I don’t go there anymore, Paris is no longer Paris.’ That was four years — four or five years, hasn’t gone there. He wouldn’t miss it for anything. Now he doesn’t even think in terms of going there.”

This is misleading. Anecdotes aside, tourism in Paris has not suffered despite the 2015 terrorist attacks. The city reported a “moderate” 1.1 percent drop in hotel arrivals that year.

That is less than the 1.4 percent drop experienced in 2014. Paris did have steady increases in tourism from 2010 to 2013, but that occurred after a 4.4 percent decline in 2009 during the global financial crisis.

Paris was named the third-most-visited city in the world in 2016 by MasterCard.

French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault tweeted in response, “3.5 million American tourists visited France in 2016, they will always be welcome #Trump #Paris #Nice #Survivor Tree.”“Tax reform is a series of battles,” said Sage Eastman, who worked in vain on tax overhaul plans as a longtime senior aide on the House Ways and Means Committee and who now lobbies for Mehlman Castagnetti Rosen & Thomas in Washington. “This is just the tip of the iceberg.”


The most vocal battle thus far is over the “border adjustment tax” that is the linchpin of the House Republican tax plan drafted by Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the Ways and Means chairman. They have proposed a 20 percent import tax along with the elimination of taxes on exports so that, in theory, corporate tax rates could be slashed without ballooning the deficit.

The plan has divided industries that have for years called for changes to the tax system, pitting retail and energy giants — which rely heavily on imports — against America’s biggest manufacturers, which hope the proposal will make their exports cheaper around the world.

But the border adjustment tax is only the first fight. Tax experts are expecting a slog that could drag well into 2018 and even cast a cloud over the midterm elections.

Many aspects of the House tax blueprint, the most specific plan floating around the capital, are already creating consternation across a swath of sectors that have learned over the years how to make do with the status quo, however cumbersome. With lawmakers working to put more concrete plans together quickly, these groups are pushing back before it is too late.

Within the real estate industry, for instance, the concern is that a proposal to nearly double the standard deduction would reduce the tax benefits of homeownership people enjoy when they itemize their returns and deduct mortgage interest from their incomes. Reducing the appeal of this benefit, the argument goes, could weaken the housing market.

“The current plan, by raising standard deduction so high, dilutes the importance of the mortgage interest deduction,” said Gerald Howard, chief executive of the National Association of Home Builders. “It really neuters it, so we’re going to try to fix that.”

Charities face a similar threat. Tax rules encouraging charitable giving have been around for ages, and they allow people to lower their tax bills and do good deeds at the same time. But, as with housing, changes to the standard deduction proposed by Republicans could erase those incentives.

Last week, Michael Kenyon, chief executive of the National Association of Charitable Gift Planners, was part of a delegation of charities that came from around the country to Washington to alert members of Congress to their concerns. They held more than a hundred meetings in the capital, where they pressed for a solution that would preserve their special status.

Video

“There is real urgency about this,” Mr. Kenyon said.

Anxiety is also high in corners of the moneyed financial world that have benefited mightily from the current system.


Private equity has for years guarded the special treatment of “carried interest,” a loophole that lets billionaire fund managers pay low capital gains tax rates instead of higher income tax rates on the fees they charge clients. Mr. Trump, taking up a call from his predecessor, Barack Obama, campaigned to end the loophole, and because Mr. Ryan’s plan is silent on the matter, it could be in jeopardy.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Another fear is the impact of a move away from the tax deduction for interest on corporate debt in favor of the immediate deductibility of business expenses. For private equity firms that rely heavily on borrowing to make deals, the shift could significantly alter the economics of many transactions by raising the cost of capital.

“We are working to educate as many lawmakers as we can,” said James Maloney, vice president for public affairs at the American Investment Council, which represents the private equity industry.

Both the Trump administration and Republicans in Congress have said they will need to address the repeal of the Affordable Care Act before diving into tax legislation. Separating the two, however, is not so simple.

One Republican plan that has already stirred controversy would cap the amount of employee health insurance costs that employers can deduct from their corporate taxes. Republicans say the exclusion, one of the largest tax breaks in the code, limits consumer choice and ties workers too tightly to their companies, even though it is economically no different from the “Cadillac tax” on expensive health plans in the health law.

Big-business groups swiftly moved to shoot down the limit on health care deductibility when it came up this month. In a letter to Gary Cohn, director of the president’s National Economic Council, lobbyists including the American Benefits Council, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the American Staffing Association argued that the exclusion would represent a new tax on the middle class. And they reminded Mr. Cohn of the president’s promises to protect working class voters.

“American voters want lower cost and high quality health care,” they wrote. “They do not want more taxes.”

Mr. Trump’s address to Congress on Tuesday is expected shed new light on his thinking about a comprehensive tax plan, but thus far the signals from his administration remain unclear. This week, for example, Mr. Mnuchin offered a tepid response when asked on CNBC about the border adjustment tax, offering only that “there’s some interesting aspects of it” and that it remained an option for consideration.


For his part, Mr. Trump, who previously described the concept as overly complex, seemed to express more openness to it in an interview with Reuters on Thursday. “It could lead to a lot more jobs in the United States,” Mr. Trump said.

“I certainly support a form of tax on the border,” he said.

Regardless of Mr. Trump’s eventual position, Senate Republicans have been increasingly pessimistic about the border tax. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said the proposal would not win the support of 10 Republican senators, essentially declaring it dead on arrival.

Even if that is overstated, Republicans will struggle to lure a sufficient number of Democrats to sign on to a tax bill. It would be a struggle just assembling the simple majority needed to make changes to the tax code through a parliamentary gambit in the budget process that would shield a tax bill from a filibuster.

The forces of outside resistance, meanwhile, show no sign of letting up.

The conservative advocacy and political action committee Club for Growth this week unveiled a television commercial in South Dakota to pressure Representative Kristi Noem, a Republican from that state who sits on the Ways and Means Committee, to oppose the border adjustment tax. The ad claimed that the tax would cause the prices of clothes, food and gasoline to spike.

David McIntosh, the group’s president, said that he thought the fixation on an import tax was going to scuttle the chance for a big tax overhaul and that Republicans were cornering themselves by essentially advocating a tax increase. More advertisements are scheduled to be released in other Republican districts to make this case.

“We’re prepared to keep going,” he said, “even if it gets to the millions.

WASHINGTON — Former Gov. Steve Beshear of Kentucky, a senior Democrat best known for putting the Affordable Care Act into effect in a deeply conservative state, will give his party’s response to President Trump’s address to Congress on Tuesday, Democratic congressional leaders announced on Friday.

In selecting Mr. Beshear, 72, Democrats opted to elevate an elder statesman from the belt of heartland states that Mr. Trump won handily, rather than highlighting one of the party’s newer faces or a potential challenger to Mr. Trump in 2020.

In announcing the choice, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, underscored Mr. Beshear’s distinctive credentials as a spokesman on health care.

The party is in the middle of a major push to derail Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, encouraging activists to swarm their members of Congress at town hall-style meetings and assailing Republican leaders for lacking a specific plan to replace the health care law.

Democratic governors gathering in Washington this weekend plan to call on Congress not to strip away health care funding from their states.


“Governor Beshear’s work in Kentucky is proof positive that the Affordable Care Act works, reducing costs and expanding access for hundreds of thousands of Kentuckians,” Mr. Schumer said in a statement.

Mr. Beshear, he added, “knows exactly what is at risk if President Trump and congressional Republicans repeal the Affordable Care Act without a replacement.”

Ms. Pelosi described Kentucky under Mr. Beshear as “one of the great success stories of the Affordable Care Act in delivering quality, affordable health coverage for all.”

Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi also announced that Astrid Silva, an immigration activist, would give a response to Mr. Trump’s address in Spanish.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Beshear, a relatively moderate Democrat who is the son of a preacher, indicated in a statement that he would also critique Mr. Trump’s leadership style and discuss education and economic opportunity.

“Real leaders don’t spread derision and division — they build partnerships and offer solutions instead of ideology and blame,” Mr. Beshear said.

But if Mr. Beshear can be expected to present an unthreatening message to voters in the political middle, it is his work on health care that has made him a national figure in the Democratic Party.

As governor, Mr. Beshear opened a state health care exchange, known as Kynect, and accepted federal money to expand Medicaid coverage in Kentucky. The number of Kentuckians without health insurance fell to 7.5 percent in 2015 from 20.4 percent in 2013, tied with Arkansas for the most dramatic plunge in the country.


Mr. Beshear has been a consistent voice of optimism about the Affordable Care Act among Democrats, and he predicted several years ago that the law would prove so popular, after being fully carried out, that it would more likely be expanded than repealed.

The law faces a far more uncertain prognosis, after Republicans won control of the White House and kept control of Congress in 2016 after campaigning on a pledge to unravel the Affordable Care Act.

Mr. Beshear’s successor as governor, Matt Bevin, who is a Republican, won federal approval last fall for a plan to dismantle the Kynect exchange and move the state into the federal exchange.

But polls have shown the Affordable Care Act growing in popularity recently, during the debate over its possible demise, and Republicans in Congress are plainly struggling to make good on their vow to “repeal and replace” it.

Mr. Beshear’s response to Mr. Trump’s address will not be his first role in a presidential address to Congress. In 2014, he attended President Barack Obama’s State of the Union speech as a guest of the president, who hailed his work on health care from the well of the House of Representatives.

“Kentucky’s not the most liberal part of the country, but he’s like a man possessed when it comes to covering his commonwealth’s families,” Mr. Obama said of Mr. Beshear.Mr. Trump’s less restrained approach energized CPAC attendees who had once viewed the developer-turned-reality-star as a self-promotional celebrity curiosity — they serenaded him with chants of “Trump” and “U.S.A.” And his message is resonating with Republican voters, over 80 percent of whom approve of his job performance, despite historically low levels of support among all voters.


But Mr. Trump is intensifying his assault on his enemies on the eve of his first national address before a joint session of Congress, a time when most new presidents are moving in the opposite direction, pivoting from martial campaign rhetoric to the more positive, inclusive language of governance needed to build the coalition necessary to pass major legislation.

On an operational level, Mr. Trump’s inexperienced but confident White House staff members — dominated by Mr. Bannon — are leaning on Hill Republicans to draft tax overhaul measures and a replacement bill for the Affordable Care Act. In the meantime, they have focused on enacting a series of quick-splash executive orders, an approach often adopted by presidents at the end of their terms when their legislative leverage has been exhausted.

As they did during the campaign, Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon believe they are tapping into an American public less interested in the standard optimistic tropes of presidential politics and more interested in someone who speaks truth to their anxieties. Moreover, aides to Mr. Trump say he fares best when he’s able to target — and nickname — an opponent, whether it is “Little Marco” Rubio, “Crooked Hillary” Clinton or the “Fake News” media.

Mr. Bannon, bookish and prone to surrounding himself with like-minded young acolytes, previewed Mr. Trump’s media-bashing during the Thursday session. “They’re corporatist, globalist media that are adamantly opposed — adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has,” he said. “I think if you look at the opposition party and how they portray the campaign, how they portrayed the transition and now they’re portraying the administration, it’s always wrong.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The attacks on the news media come at a time when the press has been reporting on the Trump campaign’s apparent connections to Russia, the botched rollout of Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration and the forced resignation of Michael T. Flynn, the national security adviser, after less than a month on the job.

“They’re very smart, they’re very cunning and they’re very dishonest,” Mr. Trump said on a day when his press secretary scrapped his daily briefing for an invitation-only off-camera gaggle for selected reporters. The move, people familiar with the situation said, was enthusiastically backed by Mr. Bannon.

The symbiotic political and personal relationship between the two men — the rumpled near-recluse and the compulsively public and image-conscious president — is driving much of the momentum and dysfunction of the White House, aides say.

For all his talk of creating a blueprint for a Trumpian conservatism that outlasts the president’s career, Mr. Bannon is not regarded as a detail-oriented manager, and he let slip during his CPAC appearance that things in the White House have gone well — but only “to the degree we were planning” them.


There is not a lot of daylight between Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon on the issues, although the president often jokes that Mr. Bannon’s economic populist agenda makes it hard to tell if the former Naval officer and Goldman Sachs executive is “alt-right or alt-left,” according to a Trump associate friendly with both.

The biggest difference between the president and his chief strategist is that Mr. Trump is far less constrained by the dictates of any single philosophy — even Mr. Bannon’s vision of Trumpism — than Mr. Bannon, who sees history as a succession of movements and power struggles.

And while Mr. Bannon described the president as “maniacally focused” on fulfilling his campaign promises, Mr. Trump often loses focus, as he did during numerous digressions from his scripted remarks on Friday.

He unleashed the latest in a succession of surprise rhetorical attacks on longstanding American allies, extemporizing about a friend named Jim who had told him to avoid the “City of Lights” because after several terrorist attacks, “Paris is no longer Paris.”

Clearly reveling in the adulation of a room that had once been hard to win, the president alternated between a theme of dark days — once again singling out violence on the streets of Chicago — and light comedy. Speaking of a meeting with business leaders this week that included food producers, he quipped, “I like Campbell’s soup.”

He also joked about his first appearance at this annual conservative conclave.

“If you remember, it was my first major speech. They said he didn’t get a standing ovation — because everybody stood,” Mr. Trump said of the speech, in 2011.

“I had very little notes and even less preparation,” he said. “And then you leave, and everybody is thrilled, and I say, ‘I like this business.’”Ms. DeVos, who declined to be interviewed for this article, arrived in Washington with no experience inside government and very little history with the president, and she took over a department whose upper ranks are mostly vacant. In the argument over transgender bathroom access, that put her at a disadvantage against Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former senator with decades of Washington experience and connections who has long had Mr. Trump’s ear.


But critics and admirers alike say they expect her to learn the ropes, build ties and get her way.

“There is a real tendency to underestimate her,” said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, usually a stalwart supporter of Democrats. “She comes across as personable, plain-spoken, but she is dangerous.”

Ms. DeVos, 59, grew up in Holland, Mich., in the western part of the state. She worked at times at the auto parts company her father, Edgar Prince, a major backer of Christian conservative causes, founded and built into a billion-dollar business. Her brother, Erik D. Prince, founded and was chief executive of the private security firm Blackwater, a controversial contractor for American personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan. Her husband, Dick DeVos, comes from an even wealthier family — his father was a founder of Amway, the multilevel marketing company — and he ran unsuccessfully for governor of Michigan in 2006.

Opponents have noted Ms. DeVos’s lack of connections to public schools and colleges — she and her husband had private educations, as did their children — or to the problems average families have in paying for education.

For three decades, Ms. DeVos fought to steer tax dollars away from traditional public schools to charter schools, which rely on public money but are operated by private groups, outside public school structures. She also sought public funds for vouchers to pay for tuition at private schools, including religious schools. Opponents call charter schools a conservative plan to undermine public education by starving it of resources, while supporters argue that they give poor families choices and create competition that pressures traditional schools to improve.

But Ms. DeVos has taken the cause further than many charter school advocates. She has supported schools run by for-profit companies and opposed performance standards for them. She has also argued that the free market — parents’ deciding whether to send their children to charter schools — should decide their fate.

Largely because of her efforts, Detroit has the nation’s largest concentration of charter schools. Many of them are low-performing, and the supply exceeds the demand in some places, within a system that has little oversight and has been derided as chaotic. At the same time, Detroit’s public schools, among the worst in the nation, have continued to deteriorate.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Last year, Detroit officials and a bipartisan group of state lawmakers backed legislation to create mechanisms for permitting new charter schools and closing failing ones. But a group Ms. DeVos created, the Great Lakes Education Project, fought against the bill and won. Ms. DeVos said the Detroit public school system should simply be shut down.

“She fought with everything she had to stop that from going into law, because she didn’t want the public schools to succeed,” Ms. Weingarten said. “She’s completely ideologically focused.”

In her confirmation hearings, Ms. DeVos noted that the vast majority of American students go to public schools, and said nothing would change that. But after taking over the Education Department, she reinforced fears that she is hostile to public education, saying that at a Washington public school she had visited, teachers were in “more of a receive mode” rather than taking initiative, “waiting to be told what they have to do.”


Greg McNeilly, a Republican political operative in Michigan who has worked extensively with Ms. DeVos, said she understood what too many Americans did not: that even public schools in the United States that are considered good do not perform as well as those in other developed countries, as measured by student test scores. “I think she wants to have a conversation with the country about what should we expect from our schools, and about being agnostic about the form of schools,” he said.

Ms. DeVos has had a rocky introduction to Washington, to put it mildly. In her Senate confirmation hearings, her shaky answers to questions about education policy and federal law, and her suggestion that some school officials carried guns to protect against grizzly bears — allies say it was meant as a joke — made her a target for late-night television comedy.

The Senate confirmed her, 51-50, with Vice President Mike Pence casting a tiebreaking vote — a first for a cabinet officer.

Friends say she was irked at being portrayed as ignorant. But she rarely considers such criticism worth responding to, in contrast to the president. Publicly, she shrugged off the mockery, even joking in her first meeting with Education Department employees that her confirmation had been “a bit of a bear.” On Thursday, she said, “The media has had its fun with me, and that’s O.K.”

One of her first acts as secretary was to call the leaders of the two major teachers’ unions, Ms. Weingarten and Lily Eskelsen García, president of the National Education Association. Ms. Eskelsen García said she saw no point in talking yet, but Ms. Weingarten returned the call, and she and Ms. DeVos made plans to visit schools together.

“It was a smart move” by the secretary, Mr. McNeilly said. “People in Washington will find out, opposition only emboldens her,” he said. “She knows how to play power politics.”